High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 1
HIGH SCHOOL
2025-2026
Program Planning Guide


Revised – 12/9/24

 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 2
Table of Contents
4 General Information
5 Endorsements
5 Graduation Requirements Chart
8 Scheduling High School Courses in Middle School
10 University of North Carolina: Minimum Admission Requirements
11 Promotion Requirements
12 Course Requirements: Course Loads, Course Selection,& Course Withdrawal
13 Grades, Grade Point Average (GPA), Class Rank & Honors
14 Transfer Credit
15 Transcripts
15 Graduation: 3-Year, Mid-Year Graduation
16 Program Details: Drivers Education, NCAA Eligibility, Exceptional Students, Study Abroad
16 Program Details: NC Virtual Public School, Credit Recovery
18 Alternative Programs of Study: AIG, Advanced Placement, Dual Enrollment
19 Application High Schools
23 Arts Education
28 Career & Technical Education
100 English Language Arts Courses
104 English as a Second Language Courses
105 Healthful Living Courses
107 JROTC Courses
112 Mathematics Courses
116 Science Courses
119 Social Studies Courses
122 Special Education Courses
126 Graduation Certificate Requirements (ECS)
129 World Language Courses
132 Other Credit Programs
133 High School Course Codes
In compliance with federal law, Wake County Public School System administers all education programs, employment activities, and
admissions without discrimination against any person on the basis of gender, race, color, religion, national origin, age or disability.
If you have questions or concerns, please visit the following site for further information: https://www.wcpss.net/non-disc-policy
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 3
Welcome to that exciting time of year when you choose the courses you will take during the
upcoming school year.
The Wake County Public School System’s High School Program provides students many options based on their career goals, needs, and individual
interests. Students may choose from a wide array of courses and programs. Choices that students make in high school impact the options they have
for future education and job opportunities after high school.
Students may select courses from Arts Education, Career and Technical Education, English Language Arts, English as a Second Language, Healthful
Living, JROTC, Mathematics, Media Services, Science, Social Studies, and World Languages.
Students must meet all course, credit, and test requirements to earn a high school diploma. Courses are designed to prepare students for
postsecondary opportunities from entry-level career options to highly technical fields, from community colleges to four-year colleges and
universities. Students are expected to pursue the most challenging course of study in which they can be successful.
This planning guide is provided to assist students and their parents or court-appointed custodians in the planning and registration process. It is the
responsibility of all students and their parents or court-appointed custodians to help make sure that students are registered for the courses they
need to meet graduation and college or university admissions requirements.
Wake County Public School System High Schools
Apex High School
Apex Friendship High School
Athens Drive High School
Broughton High School
Cary High School
Crossroads FLEX
East Wake High School
Enloe High School
Felton Grove High School
Fuquay Varina High School
Garner High School
Green Hope High School
Green Level High School
Heritage High School
Holly Springs High School
Knightdale High School
Leesville Road High School
Longview School
Mary E. Phillips High School
Middle Creek High School
Millbrook High School
North Wake College & Career Academy
Panther Creek High School
Rolesville High School
SandersonHigh School
SCORE Academy
Southeast Raleigh High School
South Garner High School
Vernon Malone College & Career Academy
Wake Early College of Health & Sciences
Wake Early College of Information & Biotechnologies
Wake Forest High School
Wake STEM Early College
Wake Young Men’s Leadership Academy
Wake Young Women’s Leadership Academy
Wakefield High School
Willow Spring High School
The following pages of the planning guide provides general information about the high school registration process in the Wake County
Public School System.
 **This Guide Contains active links to additional information. For a Digital/Live Version please go to:
 https://www.wcpss.net/domain/47
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 4
General Information
Graduation Requirements
The high schools of the Wake County Public School System primarily utilize a 4 by 4 block schedule. Broughton, Enloe, Garner, Millbrook, and
Southeast Raleigh high schools operate on a four-period A/B Day schedule. These schedules allow students to earn eight credits each year of high
school. The chart below lists the number of credits required for graduation for each high school as well as any additional graduation requirements.
High School Schedule
Number of Credits
Required For
Graduation
 Additional Recommendations/Recommend
Apex 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Apex Friendship 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Athens Drive 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Broughton A/B Day 22 100 hours of community service (25 per year)
Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Cary 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Crossroads FLEX 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
East Wake 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Enloe A/B Day 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Felton Grove 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Fuquay Varina 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Garner A/B Day 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Green Hope 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Green Level 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Heritage 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Holly Springs 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Knightdale 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Leesville Road 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Longview 4x4 Block 22
Middle Creek 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Millbrook A/B Day 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
North Wake CCA 4x4 Block 22
Panther Creek 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Phillips 4x4 Block 22
Rolesville 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Sanderson 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
SCORE Academy 4x4 Block 22
South Garner 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Southeast Raleigh Hybrid (4x4 and A/B) 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Vernon Malone CCA 4x4 Block 22
Wake Early College of Health & Sci 4x4 Block 22
Wake Early College of Info & Biotechnology 4x4 Block 22
Wake Forest 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Wake STEM Early College 4x4 Block 22
Wake Young Men’s Leadership 4x4 Block 22
Wake Young Women’s Leadership 4x4 Block 22
Wakefield 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Willow Spring 4x4 Block 22 Recommended 26 credits for High School completion
Studentsfollowing the Occupational Course of Study at all high schools must complete 22 credits, required work hours, and present a career portfolio
to earn a full diploma. Students on the OCS Pathway are required to complete 600 vocational training hours. The Occupational Course of Study is
available at all WCPSS high schools except North Wake College & Career Academy, Phillips, Vernon Malone College & Career Academy, Wake Early
College of Health & Sciences, Wake Early College of Information & Biotechnologies, Wake STEM Early College, Wake Young Men’s Leadership
Academy, and Wake Young Women’s Leadership Academy.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 5
Students must satisfy all course, credit, and testing requirements for at least one diploma type to earn a diploma and must meet the graduation
requirements that were in effect the year they entered ninth grade for the first time. A chart listing specific course requirements for graduation can
be found on page 6.
NC Math 1 is a graduation requirement for all students. The only exception to this requirement is for students that have an Individual Education
Program (IEP) that identifies them as Learning Disabled (LD) in math and states that the disability will prevent them from mastering the mathematical
content in Math I and above. Once a student is exempt, the exemption holds until the student exits public school. Documentation of the exemption
will be written in a present level of performance statement on the student’s IEP.
Students who complete all graduation requirements receive a diploma.
Endorsements
Students have the opportunity to earn Endorsements to their High School Diploma (GRAD-007). Students must meet all requirements set forth in
State Board Policy GRAD-004: State Graduation Requirements related to earning a high school diploma. Endorsements identify a particular area of
focused study for students. Students may earn a Career Endorsement, a College Endorsement, a Global Languages Endorsement, and/or a North
Carolina Academic Scholars Endorsement. The requirements for each type of endorsement are listed on the following pages.
High School Diploma Endorsements | NC DPI–
For more information go to:
www.dpi.nc.gov/districts-schools/high-school-graduation-requirements/high-school-diploma-endorsements#NEWArtsProficiencyEndorsement6900
GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
Requirements Chart
Content
Area
Students entering 9th Grade in 2022-
2023 are eligible to graduate in 3 years
(22 Credits) Entered 9th Grade 2020-2021
Occupational Course of Study
(OCS)
Entered 9th Grade 2021-2021 or later Entered 9th Grade 2021-2022
Future Ready Core
English 4 Credits
English I, II, III, IV
4 Credits
English I, II, III, IV
4 Credits
English I, II, III, IV
Mathematics 4 Credits
NC Math 1, NC Math 2, NC Math 3, and a 4th
Math Course to be aligned with the students'
post high school plans.
In the rare instance a principal exempts a
student from the FRC math sequence, the
student would be required to pass NC Math 1
and NC Math 2 and two other application-based
math courses.
4 Credits
NC Math 1, NC Math 2, NC Math 3, and a 4th Math
Course to be aligned with the students' post high
school plans.
In the rare instance a principal exempts a student
from the FRC math sequence, the student would be
required to pass NC Math 1 and NC Math 2 and two
other application-based math courses.
4 Credits
Introduction to Mathematics, NC Math 1,
Financial Management, Employment
Preparation IV: Math (to include 150 work hours)
Science 3 Credits
A physical science course, Biology,
Earth/Environmental Science
3 Credits
A physical science course, Biology,
Earth/Environmental Science
3 Credits
Applied Science, Biology, Employment
Preparation I: Science (to include 150 work
hours)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 6
Social
Studies
4 Credits
Founding Principles of the United States of
America and North Carolina: Civic Literacy,
Economics and Personal Finance, American
History, World History
4 Credits
A founding principles course which shall be
either: American History: Founding Principles,
Civics and Economics OR Founding Principles of the
United
States of America and North Carolina: Civic Literacy
An American history course which shall be either:
American History I OR American History II OR
American History
World History
Economics and Personal Finance
NOTE: It is strongly recommended that these
students
take World History in the first year of their high
school
Social Studies course sequence due to the nature of
the
adoption of the new Social Studies Standard Course
of
Study effective in 2021-22. Economics and Personal
Finance is strongly recommended to be offered
laterin
the student's high school career.
4 Credits
Founding Principles of the United States of
America and North Carolina: Civic Literacy
Economics and Personal Finance
Employment Preparation II: Citizenship 1A (to
include 75 work hours)
Employment Preparation II: Citizenship IB (to
include 75 work hours)
Health &
Physical
Education
1 Credit*
Healthful Living I
Successful Completion of CPR requirement
outlined in NCGS 115C-81.
*Accommodations/alternative assessments
for students identified by ADA or IDEA will
be provided.
1 Credit*
Healthful Living I
Successful Completion of CPR requirement
outlined in NCGS 115C-81.
*Accommodations/alternative assessments
for students identified by ADA or IDEA will
be provided.
1 Credit*
Healthful Living I
Successful Completion of CPR requirement
outlined in NCGS 115C-81.
*Accommodations/alternative assessments
for students identified by ADA or IDEA will
be provided.
Two Elective
Combination
2 elective credits of any combination from
either:
- Career & Technical Education (CTE)
- Arts Education
- World Languages
2 elective credits of any combination from either:
- Career & Technical Education (CTE)
- Arts Education
- World Languages
2 Additional Employment Preparation
Education credits
Employment Preparation III: Citizenship II A
(to include 75 work hours)
Employment Preparation III: Citizenship II B
(to include 75 work hours)
The work hours included in Employment
Preparation I, II, III, IV shall be asfollows:
-150 hours ofschool-based training work with
activities and experiences that align with
student's post school goals, and
-225 hours of community-based training, and
-225 hours of paid employment or 225 hours of
unpaid vocational training, unpaid internship,
paid employment at community rehabilitation
facilities, and volunteer and/or community
services hours.
-Total work hours: 600
Four
Electives
4 Elective creditsfrom the following
(four-course concentration recommended):
Career and Technical Education (CTE)
ROTC
Arts Education (e.g., dance, music, theater
arts, visual arts)
Any othersubject area or cross-disciplinary
courses (e.g., mathematics, science, social
studies, English, and dual enrollment
courses)
Four Elective credits from the following
(four-course concentration recommended):
Career and Technical Education (CTE)
ROTC
Arts Education (e.g., dance, music, theater
arts, visual arts)
Any othersubject area or cross-disciplinary
courses (e.g., mathematics, science, social
studies, English, and dual enrollment
courses)
4 Career/Technical Education Elective Credits
A career portfolio
Completion of the student’sIEP objectives
Reference: NC State Board of Education Policy GRAD-004, State Graduation Requirements
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 7
NOTE 1: Beginning in fall 2022, students entering Grade 6 and subsequently entering Grade 9 for the first time in 2025-26
shall have at least one arts education course in grades 6-12.
• Studentsmust complete the standard courseofstudy (no local electives)for a givenarts educationcourse inits entirety
to satisfy this requirement. After-school activities or partial courses do not fulfill this graduation requirement.
• Students who transfer into a public-school unit beginning in the ninth grade or later may be exempt, if such a
requirement would prevent a student from graduating with the graduation cohort to which the student was
assigned when transferring.
NOTE 2: One credit of Computer Science instruction to the North Carolina Graduation Requirements starting for students
entering ninth grade in the 2025–2026 school year.
• This will not increase the total number of credits but reduces the total required number of elective credits by one.
• The course(s) that meet the graduation requirement provided may be offered to middle school students and
would fulfill the requirement.
• Only accepted courses on the DPI Accepted Computer Science Coursesform can satisfy this requirement.
NOTE 3: CPR Requirement
• Students are required to successfully complete CPR instruction to meet Healthful Living Essential Standards as a
requirement for high school graduation by the 2014-2015 school year.
• Accommodations/alternative assessments for students identified by ADA or IDEA will be provided.
NOTE4: Career Development Plan
• The State Board of Education established a minimum requirement for career development plans. WCPSS must
provide access to all career development plans through a designated electronic application. Career development
plans shall be created in a student's 8th grade year and 10th grade year.
Special Graduation Requirement Notes
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 8
Scheduling High School Coursesfor Middle School Students
As outlined in State Board of Education Policy CCRE-001, students in grades 6-8 have the opportunity to earn high school credit while in middle
school. The Wake County Public School System has determined that the following courses will be available to middle school students.
Please note that teacher-led courses taught for high school credit at the middle school may require specific teacher certification.
Course Name Course Code if Offered on NCVPS Course Code if Offered at Middle School or
WCPSS Online
English / Language Arts
English I * 10212Y0V 10212Y0
Mathematics
NC Math 1 21092Y0V 21092Y0
NC Math 2 * 22092X0V 22092Y0
NC Math 3 * 23092X0V 23092Y0
Precalculus * 24032Y0V 24032Y0
World Languages
French I 11012Y0V 11012Y0
Spanish I 11412Y0V 11412Y0
French II 11022Y0V 11022Y0
Spanish II 11422Y0V 11422Y0
If schools are unable to accommodate the scheduling of the courses as teacher-led courses, then the courses may be taken online via NCVPS. (See
chart for details). Math courses can be substituted for grade level math courses.
Course codes for high school courses available for middle schoolstudents are noted above in the chart. These are the only coursesthat middle school
students are eligible to take for high school credit.
High school courses taken at the middle school level will be placed on the high school transcript. Grades will show as the grade earned. High school
coursestaken in middle school will count as creditstoward high school graduation but will not be counted as a part of the student’s high school grade
point average (GPA).
* Middle school students do not receive honors credit; however, it is recommended that the student take NC Math 2 and NC Math 3 and English I at
the honors level so that they are prepared for the next learning.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 9
High School Coursesfor Middle School Students: Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ)
1. Will the grades earned in high school courses taken in middle school appear on the high school transcript?
Yes. The grade will be listed on the transcript under Grades 6, 7, or 8 with one unit of credit.
2. Will the grade earned be included in the student’s grade point average (GPA)?
No. Only courses taken during the high school years will be included on the student’s grade point average.
3. Can a student repeat a course for credit at the high school level?
Students are permitted to repeat a course to build a stronger foundation for future learning. Students wishing to do this should make a written
request to their principal or principal’s designee. When students choose this option, please note:
• Students will receive a numerical grade and both grades will appear on the high school transcript.
• If the course isrepeated at the high school level, the grade earned will factor into the GPA. Only courses taken at the high school level
are included in a student’s GPA.
• Students will not receive credit towards graduation for the second attempt with the course.
• Students repeating a course for credit will take any associated End-of-Course (EOC) assessment. Those students who have already
scored at Level 3, 4, or 5 on the associated EOC assessment may elect to retake the EOC or use the previous passing score as 20% of
their final grade. If the student retakes the EOC, the higher of the two scores will be used in the calculation of the final grade.
4. Do exploratory world language classes (6th Grade, 9 week) count toward earning high school credit?
No. Exploratory or Introductory world (foreign) language classes do not count toward earning high school credit due to the limited amount of
instructional time.
5. Which world language course(s) must students successfully complete in order to earn one unit of high school credit?
Successful completion of all courses included in the Level I curriculum series.
6. Are students required to take a final exam for world language course(s)?
Yes, a district final exam will be given after the completion of the Level I curriculum courses. The final exam counts as 20% of the student’s
final grade.
7. Is there a math placement exam?
No. Students who successfully complete mathematics courses may be placed in the next level of mathematics based on middle school math
placement guidelines.
8. Are students required to take a standard exam for math course(s)?
Students taking NC Math 1 must take the NC Math 1 End-of-Course (EOC) test which counts as 20% of their final grade. Students taking NC
Math 3 must take the NC Math 3 End-of-Course (EOC) test which counts as 20% of their final grade. Students taking other high school math
courses will take a teacher-made exam that counts as 20% of their final grade.
9. Is there an English Language Arts placement exam?
No. Students who successfully complete English Language Arts courses may be placed in the next level of English Language Arts based on middle
school ELA placement guidelines.
10. Are students required to take a standard exam for ELA course(s)?
Students taking English I must take a final exam which counts as 20% of their final grade.
11. Will the High School Arts Graduation appear on Transcripts?
Yes, they will appear on all transcripts starting with the 2025-2026 9th grade graduating class. More information can be found by contacting your
school’s counselor.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 10
University of North Carolina System: Minimum Admission Requirements
The UNC Board of Governors recently adopted a time-limited policy provision that allows a student to meet minimum eligibility requirements for
admissions consideration. A student who earns at least a 2.5 weighted high school grade point average OR a minimum test score on either the ACT
(19) or the SAT (1010) is eligible for review by any of the 16 UNC System universities. A student must still take either the ACT or the SAT to be
considered for admission. All applicants must submit a valid score as part of their application to any individual institution. Please note that while
these are the minimum requirements for consideration, they do not guarantee acceptance.
UNC System Minimum Admission Requirements
Four (4) Credits in language, including:
● Four (4) credits in English emphasizing grammar, composition, and literature.
Four (4) credits in mathematics in any of the following combinations:
● NC Math 1, NC Math 2, NC Math 3, and one credit beyond NC Math 3
It is recommended that prospective students take a mathematics credit in the 12th grade.
Three (3) credits in science, including:
● At least one (1) credit in a life or biological science (for example, Biology),
● At least one (1) credit in a physical science (for example, physical science, chemistry, physics), and,
● At least one (1) laboratory course
Two (2) credits in social studies, including,
● One (1) credit in United States History
An applicant who does not have a credit in US History may be admitted on the condition that at least three (3) semester hours in
the subject will be passed by the end of the sophomore year.
Two (2) credits in English, mathematics, science, social studies, world languages, or computer science.
• These courses should be selected in alignment with a student’s academic and career objectives. Completion of two
sequential world language courses is recommended.
Reference: UNC Minimum Admission Requirements
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 11
Promotion Requirements
High school students shall be promoted by attaining credits that are earned through successful completion of specific courses as illustrated in the
following charts. Note that the appropriate English credit is required for promotion each year.
Apex, Apex Friendship, Athens Drive, Broughton, Cary, Crossroads FLEX, East Wake, Enloe, Felton Grove, Fuquay-Varina, Garner, Green Hope,
Green Level, Heritage, Holly Springs, Knightdale, Leesville Road, Middle Creek, Millbrook, Panther Creek, Rolesville, Sanderson, Southeast Raleigh,
South Garner, Wake Forest, Wakefield and Willow Spring High Schools.
From Grade Promotion Criteria Credits
9 English I; two credits in the areas of mathematics, social studies, or science;
and three additional credits
6
10 English II; one credit in mathematics; one credit in social studies; one credit
in science; and two additional credits
12
11 English III; enrollment in a program which, if successfully accomplished, will
result in the completion of graduation requirements
18
Longview, North Wake College & Career Academy, Phillips, SCORE Academy, Vernon Malone College & Career Academy, Wake Early College of
Health & Sciences, Wake Early College of Information and Biotechnologies, Wake STEM Early College, Wake Young Men’s Leadership Academy,
Wake Young Women’s Leadership Academy
From Grade Promotion Criteria Credits
9 English I; two credits in the areas of mathematics, social studies, or science;
and one additional credit
4
10 English II; one credit in mathematics; one credit in social studies; one credit
in science
8
11 English III; enrollment in a program which, if successfully accomplished, will
result in the completion of graduation requirements
14
Students should check with their counselors for information on additional promotion requirements.
Reference: WCPSS Board Policy 3420, Student Promotion & Accountability
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 12
Course Requirements
Course Loads
In the high schools, each student shall carry a course load equal to the number of instructional periods in the school day, unless special permission is
given to the student by the principal. Students approved for Career & Technical Cooperative Education programs or for dual enrollment in postsecondary schools are exempt from this policy.
Course Selection
No two required English courses may be taken concurrently except in extenuating circumstances as approved by the principal.
Each student served by the Wake County Public School System may request any course listed in this program guide. The system has the potential of
offering each course, subject to sufficient minimum student enrollment and adequate staffing and materials. Additionally, due to facility limitations,
some courses can be taught only in certain schools. A student who wants to pursue a program of study not available in the school to which he/she
is assigned should request a transfer through the Office of Student Assignment. Students granted a transfer for course selection must provide their
own transportation.
Course Withdrawal Penalty
Students are not allowed to drop a course after the first ten days of school. If a student withdraws after the ten-day period, a failure (WF) is noted
as the grade and the course is counted as a course attempted with no quality points earned. This action will result in a lower grade point average for
the student.
Grades, Grade Point Average (GPA), Class Rank & Honors
Grading System
The grading system for all WCPSS high schools is established in WCPSS School Board Policy 3400 R&P.
Letter Grade Standard Course Honors Courses AP Courses
A 4 4.5 5
B 3 3.5 4
C 2 2.5 3
D 1 1.5 2
F 0 0 0
Students will receive one extra quality point for Community College courses approved by the Comprehensive Articulation Agreement (CAA).
Independent college and UNC system courses will also earn one extra quality point. Official AP and IB courses will earn one extra quality point.
 Students in selected Project Lead the Way courses will earn one extra quality point. Extra weighting is indicated in the course description. Reference:
NC State Board Policy GRAD-009 (section 3)
Grading Scale
The following grading scale applies to all high school courses.
A = 90-100 B = 80-89 C = 70-79 D = 60-69
F = less than 60 I = Incomplete WP = Withdraw, no penalty WF = Withdraw, with penalty
There are times when schools must enter historical grades representing courses not taught in NC public schools. These courses may be from sources
such as community colleges, colleges/universities, home schools, and private schools. If these courses are recorded with a numeric grade, school
districts will use that grade to enter into PowerSchool. However, some of these courses are only documented with letter grades. In those scenarios,
the school will use the following conversion chart provided by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction:
Letter Grade Numeric Grade Conversion
A, A+, A- 95
B, B+, B- 85
C, C+, C- 75
D, D+, D- 65
F 55
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 13
Grading Period, Interims, and Report Cards
Report cards are issued to students every nine weeks. Per WCPSS School Board Policy 3400, interim reports will be issued to all students at the
midpoint of each quarter.
Final Exams & NC Assessment Requirements
As outlined in WCPSS Board Policy 3410, the Wake County Board of Education believes that an effective testing and assessment program evaluates
the progress of individual students and helps ensure that educational goals and objectives are being met for every child. A testing and assessment
program also assists in the continued refinement of the instructional program.
High school students must take all end-of-course (EOC) tests, Career & Technical Education state assessments (CTE Post-Assessments), and other
tests as required by the State Board of Education. The results of EOC and CTE post-assessment exams will count as 20 percent of a student’s final
grade in each high school course for which there is an EOC test or CTE Post-Assessment. This requirement does not apply to EOC tests for students
following the Occupational Course of Study. In courses without a state assessment, the final exam will also count as 20 percent of the student’s final
grade.
In 2024-2025, EOC tests will be administered in the following courses: NC Math 1, NC Math 3, Biology, English II. (Important Note: Students without
a valid Biology EOC score or code will be expected to participate in the State EOC administration when enrolling in AP or IB Biology.)
For the 2024-2025 school year, Students in Grade 12 may be exempt from exams based on the following criteria:
• Students must have a projected final grade of B or higher.
• Students must have 10 or fewer absences in the course.
• Students cannot be exempt from state testing including field testing.
The principal (consistent with GS 115C-288) has final authority to determine a student's exemption status.
Grade Point Average (GPA)
A student’s grade point average (GPA) is calculated by adding all quality points earned while in high school (grades 9-12) and dividing by the number
of courses taken. The weighted GPA includes any additional quality points earned by taking Honors/AP/IB courses, while the unweighted GPA does
not include any additional quality points. Courses that are assigned Ps and credits earned via Credit by Demonstrated Mastery (CDM) do not count
towards the overall GPA. Students who have questions about how their GPA is calculated should meet with their counselor.
Class Rank
There shall be periodic compilations of class rankings in high school for the purpose of making an individual student’s class rank available to the
student, his/her parent, and to other institutions, such as colleges/universities for the purpose of college / university admission and/or scholarships.
To determine class rank, each high school uses final course grades, dividing the total number of quality points divided by the total number of credits
attempted. The results are rounded to the fourth decimal place. Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate courses, Community College
courses included on the most recent Comprehensive Articulation Agreement Transfer List, and courses taught at four-year universities and colleges
carry one (1.0) extra quality point. Honors courses carry one-half (0.5) extra quality point. This program guide designates courses with weighted
credit with an “AP” or “HN.” To obtain information about which courses carry weighted credit, as well as general information about class rank,
students should consult with their counselors.
A Senior Honorsrank is calculated and awarded in accordance with Policy 3450, Class Rankings. Forstudents graduating at the end of eightsemesters,
all high schools will determine senior honors using the GPA at the end of the 1stsemester of the graduating year (semester 7). If any student believes
that their last semester courses will impact their honors status, they can request that the school review their transcript and final grades. If final
semester grades are likely to result in a new / different recognition, the school will honor that recognition. Please note that updates to honors status
will only be able to be changed in the graduation program up until a certain date as those are printed well before graduation. No student who earns
graduation honors will have their status altered if their final GPA falls in the last semester of study. For students graduating midyear, the school will
use this same system for determining graduation honors using the weighted GPA from the last completed semester of study. The principal shall have
final approval of honors designations.
Latin Honors
WCPSS will designate the following senior honors in lieu of naming a Valedictorian or Salutatorian:
1. Students with a 3.75 - 3.99 weighted grade point average shall receive the distinction of cum laude.
2. Students with a 4.0 - 4.249 weighted grade point average shall receive the distinction of magna cum laude.
3. Students with a 4.25 or higher weighted grade point average shall receive the distinction of summa cum laude.
Reference: WCPSS School Board Policy 3450, Class Rankings
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 14
Transfer Credit
Students transferring into a Wake County Public School System (WCPSS) high school from another school, private or public, a home school, or an
alternative school may receive credit toward graduation for courses successfully completed in the sending school. Courses taken in grades 6-8
which do not have an EOC shall use high school course codes and shall be aligned to the North Carolina Standard Course of Study for grades 9-12.
The courses will count toward graduation requirements, but the student's GPA will be computed with courses taken during the high school years.
Students transferring from a non-magnet WCPSS school to another WCPSS school will receive:
A. Credit for all courses approved by the sending school.
B. Weighted credit for all courses as aligned with State Board Policy CCRE 001.
Students transferring from another public school system or from a charter school into the WCPSS will receive:
A. Credit for all courses approved by the sending school.
B. Weighted credit for a course designated by the sending school system as Honors or AP only if a comparable course is designated Honors
or AP in the current WCPSS High School Planning Guide.
Students transferring from a non-public school accredited by Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) or from its regional equivalents*
into the WCPSS will receive:
A. Credit for all courses approved by the sending school.
B. Weighted credit for a course designated by the sending school system as Honors or AP only if a comparable course is designated Honors
or AP in the current WCPSS High School Planning Guide.
Upon review and approval by the principal, students transferring into a WCPSS school from a non-public school not accredited by Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) or from its regional equivalents* or from a home school may receive credit toward graduation for courses
successfully completed in the non-accredited, non-public school within the following guidelines:
A. Documentation must be provided to the receiving WCPSS school by the sending school as to the course of study the student followed,
materials used, work samples, and scores of any standardized tests the student has taken.
B. Grades will be recorded as "Pass" (P) or "Fail" (F) and will be identified on the transcript as non-WCPSS grades.
C. Grades and credits will not be included in the calculation of GPA nor class rank.
Upon review and approval by the principal, students may receive credit for courses taken abroad if the following guidelines are met:
A. The courses have substantial equivalency to a WCPSS high school course in content and number of hours.
B. The student currently enrolled as a WCPSS student has filed a written request with the principal to receive credit. That request must
include at minimum (1) the course name the student will participate in as a part of the study abroad, (2) content outline, and (3) the
aligned course within the High School Program Planning Guide. This request must be approved by the principal prior to the study abroad
experience.
C. Grades will be recorded in accordance with this R&P.
Current WCPSS students who take courses for credit outside of the Wake County Public School System must have prior approval before courses can
be considered for transfer to the WCPSS transcript. This will happen in alignment with Policy 3101, Dual Enrollment and its related R&P.
To the extent possible, students who transfer among schools in Wake County or who transfer into the WCPSS in the middle of an academic year
will be enrolled in courses that are similar to those in which they had been enrolled at their previous school. In the event that, due to course
offerings in the new school, a student is unable to enroll in a course that is similar to one in which he or she had been enrolled, the student will be
given the opportunity to enroll in an alternate course that will not result in the denial of credit to the extent practical in the school setting.
Determinations of credit for transfer students will be based on a review of individual circumstances. The school system does not guarantee course
credit if a student is unable to complete a course due to a transfer.
* Middle States, New England, North Central, Northwest, Southern, and Western Associations
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 15
Transcripts
WCPSS high schools use the College Foundation of North Carolina (CFNC) Electronic Transcript as the primary method of sending senior transcripts
to institutions of higher education in North Carolina. All North Carolina colleges, universities and community colleges accept the CFNC Electronic
Transcript. These transcripts are free to current seniors and are sent within one day of the request through the student CFNC account online. More
information can be found at www.cfnc.org
WCPSS high schools provides each currently enrolled high school student access to official transcripts at no charge. After receiving written
permission from the parent for students under the age of 18, these transcripts will be sent to any college, university, or organization requested.
Transcripts may be requested online via your high school’s website or https://wcpss.scriborder.com.
In addition to the initial transcripts, there is no charge for the following:
● Mid-year senior year transcript
● Final transcript after graduation
● Transcript for any scholarship or award requested by the high schoolscholarship committee. Consult yourschool counselor or registrar for
more information on sending transcripts.
Graduation Options
3-Year Graduate
North Carolina House Bill 259 allowsstudentsto graduate with 22 credits aftertheir third year of high school (6 totalsemesters). The 3-
Year Graduate option applies to students that entered 9th grade during the 2022-2023 school year and beyond. Eligible students are
only able to apply for this flexibility if they meet the state’s minimum graduation requirements. Students should contact their school
about the application process for the 3- Year Graduate Option.
Mid-Year Graduation (During Senior Year)
Students graduating before the end of a school year can follow the school's Mid-Year Graduate process. Students must meet the NCDPI
Requirements. the end of the 2024-2025 school year. For example, Student X has decided they want to graduate mid-year. The
counselor will review the transcript to ensure all NCDPI graduation requirements will be met. If so, the student should follow the midyear graduate process and can graduate mid-year.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 16
Program Details
Drivers Education
Drivers Education is offered through a private contractor during after-school hours, holidays, and summer months. Enrollment information is
available from site coordinators in each high school.
NCAA Eligibility Requirements
The NCAA has established a central clearinghouse to certify athletic eligibility to Division I and Division II institutions. Students who intend to
participate with or without a scholarship as a freshman in college must register with and be certified as eligible by the NCAA Eligibility Center. Please
note that initial eligibility certification pertains only to NCAA requirementsfor participation in Division I or II athletics and has no bearing on admission
to a particular Division I or II institution. Please note the following:
● It is best to register at the beginning of your sophomore year.
● Register online at www.eligibilitycenter.org. For Division III, contact your Division III college regarding its policies on financial aid, practice
and competition.
● For the latest NCAA Division I or II requirements and current NCAA approved course lists, go to www.eligibilitycenter.org.
Programs for Exceptional Students
All Wake County Public School System high schools provide services for students with disabilities who meet state criteria for Special Education
Services. Students who are suspected of having a disability are typically referred by their parents or by school personnel. The IEP Team will review
data and information to determine if an evaluation for special education consideration is necessary. Following the evaluation, if one was completed,
an IEP team, to include the parents, determines whether the student is eligible. Every eligible student has an Individualized Educational Program
(IEP), which identifies the student’s strengths and needs and sets annual goals based on the identified needs. The IEP also reflects the transition
services for life after high school, accommodations/modifications, and specially designed instruction in the least restrictive placement in order for
the student to make progress toward their annual goals and toward the general curriculum.
For more information about these programs, students should see their counselors.
Study Abroad
For a student to take courses abroad and receive high school credit in Wake County, careful planning based on outlined procedures is required. Credit
may be given for those courses that have substantial equivalency to a Wake County high school course in content and hours as documented by a
syllabus from the school.
Grades will be recorded in accordance with Board Policy 3460 R&P. A notation of “Pass” (P) or “Fail” (F) will be made on the permanent record. This
procedure, while resolving the problem of incompatible grading systems, may affect a student's ability to qualify as a “North Carolina Academic
Scholar” and other academic recognitions.
A. Responsibilities of the Student
1. File “Request for Credit for Study Abroad” by July 1 of the year preceding the proposed study; approval cannot be granted until the student
submits a copy of the syllabus of the course(s) for which credit is requested. The hours of study and grading system in the course(s) must
be included.
2. Notify his/her principal and receive approval for any course changes by December 31 of the year prior to his/her study abroad.
3. Mail to his/her Wake County high school a copy of the first semester grade report received on approved courses.
4. Schedule and take required End-of-Course tests and teacher examinations of the Wake County course(s) for which substitution is to be
made. This requires the student to be available one week prior to graduation from high school (June or August graduation is available).
5. Notify the school of any changes in permanent address and telephone numbers.
B. Responsibilities of the School
1. Approve or deny “Request for Credit for Study Abroad” no more than two weeks after course syllabus is presented.
2. Administer required End-of-Course tests and teacher examinations to students.
3. Enter an E-1 on the last day of school on the principal’s monthly report for students studying abroad.
North Carolina Virtual Public School (NCVPS)
A student requesting to be enrolled in a district-approved online for credit course must meet with his/her school counselor to discuss online learning
opportunities and determine eligibility. Once eligibility is determined, the student, along with his/her parent/guardian must submit a signed Online
Course Enrollment Form to his/her school counselor for principal approval.
Course options and logistics around online learning is governed by WCPSS Board Policy 3102 and its related R&P.
Credit Recovery vs Repeating a Course for Credit
NC State Board of Education Policy CCRE-001 defines “repeating a course for credit” as any high school course repeated via any delivery method
when the entire Standard Course of Study is being taught for the second time. “Credit recovery” is defined as delivering a subset of the Standard
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 17
Course of Study in order to specifically address deficiencies in a student’s mastery of the course and target specific components of a course necessary
for completion.
When a student is completing a course via credit recovery, the following apply:
● The length of credit recovery courses will be dictated by the skills and knowledge the student demonstrates on pre-assessments for
standards within a credit recovery course.
● When credit recovery is exercised, the original record of the course being completed and failed will remain on the transcript.
● The grade for credit recovery is pass/fail and does not factor into the student’s GPA.
When a student is repeating a course for credit, the following apply:
● Students will receive a numerical grade and both grades will appear on the high school transcript.
● For students who initially fail a course and repeat the full course and earn a passing grade:
○ Prior to 2015-16, both grades will count towards GPA calculation.
○ Beginning in 2015-16, the new course grade will replace the failing grade in GPA calculation.
● For students who passed the course with minimal proficiency and are retaking it to build a stronger foundation:
○ Students will receive a numerical grade and both grades will appear on the high school transcript.
○ Both grades will count towards GPA calculation.
○ Students will not receive credit towards graduation for the second attempt with the course.
● Only grades earned in high school are included in a student’s high school GPA.
● Students will take any associated End-of-Course (EOC) assessment. Those students who have already scored at Level 3, 4, or 5 on the
associated EOC assessment may elect either to retake the EOC or use the previous passing EOC score as 20% of their final grade. If the
student retakes the EOC, the higher of the two scores will be used in the calculation of the final grade.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 18
Alternative Programs of Study
Academically or Intellectually Gifted Services
Academically or Intellectually Gifted (AIG) students may be identified in English/Language Arts, mathematics, or in both areas. Students who qualify
for the AIG program are served through self-selected courses within specified Honors and/or AP English classes and/or in specified advanced level
mathematics courses. These courses are designed to provide challenges and appropriate instruction for very capable studentsthrough more frequent
use of higher-level skills and concepts and development of advanced, independent research projects.
Advanced Placement Program
The Advanced Placement (AP) Program offers students the opportunity to engage in rigorous college-level course work in a high school setting. AP
courses support students in cultivating important skills and habits of mind that are essential for college and career readiness. Additionally, students
may receive higher consideration for admission to colleges and universities, as well as possible college or university course credit and/or placement.
WCPSS offers numerous AP courses throughout the district in the areas of Arts Education, World Languages, English Language Arts, Science,
Mathematics, and Social Studies, and others. Specific course offerings vary from school to school.
Dual Enrollment Opportunities (*will be updated) As outlined in Policy 3101, in its effort to provide a rigorous expanded curriculum that will adequately prepare students for future education and
workplace endeavors, the Wake County Board of Education will support high school students who wish to enroll in an appropriate college course or
combination of college courses outside the Wake County Public School System for high school credit. Principals shall award dual credit according to
the Career & College Promise program guidelines established by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NCDPI). Only courses that
articulate to courses included in the Dual Credit Chart will be considered for credit on the high school transcript.
Any student who is dually enrolled must continue to be present at a WCPSS school for a minimum of 50% of the instructional day. The parent or
guardian of the high schoolstudent must give permission for the course to be taken and then student and parent/guardian must complete the WCPSS
dual enrollment form prior to enrolling in the course. Enrollment of a student in a course is the responsibility of the student and parent/guardian.
The course must be approved in advance by the principal using the dual enrollment form.
General Policies, Eligibility Guidelines, and Application Process
1. The course must be part of the student’s comprehensive course of study.
2. The course must provide opportunities not currently available at the student’s school.
3. The student must be enrolled for at least 50% of the instructional day and progressing toward graduation at the base school.
4. The student must complete the Dual Enrollment form and have the signed approval of the principal or principal designee prior to registering
for the course.
5. The student must contact the cooperating institution and complete all admission and registration, or other requirements as requested by
the IHE, community college, or non-WCPSS secondary school. The student must provide their own transportation, be responsible for any
fees, and follow all rules, regulations, and calendars as set by the cooperating institution.
6. The student will be responsible for providing an official grade report directly to the base school as evidence of dual enrollment course
completion. The course will be added to the student’s transcript and an Incomplete (I) will be noted until the official grade is received. If
a transcript is not received, the grade will convert from an Incomplete (I) to an F, and an F will be calculated on the transcript. Once a
student is enrolled, the course cannot be dropped without permission of the principal and following proper procedures of the cooperating
institution.
a. University or college transfer courses of three to give (3-5) hours will receive one credit at the base school.
b. Community college courses of at least forty-nine (49) contact hours will receive one-half credit at the base school. Community
college courses of at least ninety-nine (99) contact hours will receive one-half credit at the base school.
7. The student must take IHE, community college, or non-WCPSS secondary school courses for graded credit in order to earn a high school
credit.
8. Quality points will be calculated as defined in the WCPSS High School Program Planning Guide.
Additional details and regulations are available in Policy 3101 and its related R&P.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 19
Application High School Program Descriptions
ATHENS DRIVE MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL – Center for Medical Sciences and Global Health Initiatives
The magnet theme at Athens Drive Center for Medical Sciences and Global Health Initiatives emphasizes real-world global health problems and
hands-on experiences. Project-based learning and STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) pedagogy will support learning across
disciplines. Students will receive a comprehensive, relevant education that produces critical thinkers. Community partnerships will offer hands-on
learning opportunities and connect experts in the medical and global health fields with classroom learning. In collaboration with school and district
leadership, a partnership with National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) provides a unique experience of cutting-edge professional
development for Athens Drive teachers that translate to infusion of the health sciences sensibilities within core area courses and elective offerings.
BROUGHTON GLOBAL STUDIES AND LANGUAGE IMMERSION / INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE DIPLOMA
PROGRAMME MAGNET HIGH
The Global Studies program preparesstudents for global citizenship and intercultural understanding through opportunities for skill development and
social-global connections. Studentsstudy various world regions, cultures, and global issues asthey are relevant to the content in their comprehensive
course offerings. Critical thinking, research, writing, and other analytical skills are developed through project-based learning units.
Students who have completed the first nine years of Dual Language Immersion in K-8th grades, can take high school Mandarin Chinese or Spanish
classes that further the language and cultural development.
Additionally, globally focused electives are integrated into the Global Studies theme so that students can elect to concentrate their learning on
specific global topics. Broughton also offers the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) to 11th and 12th grade students. The IB
Diploma Programme emphasizes the ideals of international understanding, responsible citizenship, and service. Students with an International
Baccalaureate Diploma can gain admission and/or advanced credit at universities around the world. Broughton additionally offers language
immersion programs in Spanish and (in the near future) Mandarin. Language immersion students, who are continuing a K-12 pathway, have the
opportunity to take literacy courses in their target language and engage in a variety of experiences to further develop bilingual and bicultural skills.
CROSSROADS FLEX HIGH SCHOOL
Crossroads FLEX, in partnership with North Carolina Virtual, is a digital, blended learning school. Blended learning is using both online and in-person
learning experiences when teaching students. Crossroads FLEX serves students whose outside interests and activities require considerable amounts
of time during regular school hours known as “pursuits.” Pursuits can include highly competitive and active students in the arts, sports, and
entrepreneurship. Crossroads FLEX allows students to meet those obligations while meeting all requirements for high school graduation and college
and career readiness.
A Crossroads FLEX student is responsible, self-motivated, engaged, and exhibits the highest degree of integrity. Students are encouraged to reflect
on the world around them, refocustheir priorities, and refine what they are willing to try differently. At Crossroads FLEX,students meet with teachers
to review their learning progress, discuss their work, ask questions, or receive assistance with difficult concepts. Students work independently on
online lessons, projects, and assignments at home and school. Crossroads FLEX’s vision is to guide and graduate students whose individual pursuits
empower them to emblazon change upon the world.
EAST WAKE iTECH & DESIGN MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL
The iTech & Design theme provides an environment where students use design thinking in all core and elective courses. Partnering with Wake Tech
Community College’s (WTCC) new East Campus, dual enrollment opportunities will be available in both Associate’s Degree of Arts(AA) and Associate’s
Degree of Applied Sciences (AAS) pathways. The program at East Wake will prepare students for work in an interconnected and automated industry
culture through theme-specific electives and industry-supported design challenges. These real-world experiences will be enhanced through
collaboration with business/community partners and the partnership with WTCC. These partnerships will result in high-tech learning experiences
and field trips to enhance student learning. Finally, East Wake Magnet High will provide the AVID program that focuses on preparing students for
college and career opportunities. It will do so by engaging students in inquiry, the problem-solving process, and organization strategies that will
benefit their learning prior to starting their courses at Wake Tech Community College.
ENLOE GIFTED & TALENTED/INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL
The Enloe Gifted & Talented program allows all students opportunities to pursue their gifts and talents through advanced study in both core and
elective areas. The extensive elective menu includes all levels of coursework in the visual and performing arts, foreign languages, humanities,
sciences, audio and television production, and advanced computer sciences. Various Advanced Placement courses are offered in various subjects.
Enloe also offers the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) to qualified 11th and 12th grade students. Emphasis is placed on the
ideals of international understanding, responsible citizenship, and service. Students with an International Baccalaureate Diploma can gain admission
to colleges around the world.
GARNER INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL
All 9th and 10th grade students at International Baccalaureate (IB) World High Schools are a part of the IB Middle Years Programme (MYP). Freshman
and sophomores take classes every year in each of the eight subject areas: Language and Literature (English Language Arts), Language Acquisition
(world language), math, sciences, Individual and Societies, Visual and Performing Arts, Physical Education and Health and Design (CTE/Technology)
classes. The Middle Years Programme incorporates international understanding and global contexts into the core curriculum. During the final year
of the MYP (10th grade), students complete a Personal Project, a culminating experience which demonstrates initiative, organization, and creativity.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 20
In addition, IB World High Schools provide the programme continuation of the IB Middle Years Programmes offered at East Garner Magnet Middle
School and West Millbrook Magnet Middle School.
The International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme is offered to interested 11th and 12th grade students who wish to pursue the most rigorous
and globally focused course of study offered in the United States of America. In addition to academic rigor, students learn through inquiry-based
learning, which fosters academic responsibility and appropriately questions newly learned information. IB Diploma Programme students choose one
subject from each of the five groups (Language and Literature, World Language, Sciences, Math and Individuals and Societies—history), ensuring
breadth of knowledge and understanding in each group. Students also choose either an arts course or a second course from one of the first five
groups. Citizenship and service are a fundamental component for IB Diploma students. Students earning an International Baccalaureate Diploma
have an internationally recognized degree which broadens their access to colleges around the world.
In addition to the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, Garner Magnet High School also offersthe IB Career-related Programme. The CP
incorporates the values of the Diploma Programme into a unique programme that addresses the needs of students engaged in career-related
education during their 11th and 12th grade years of high school. CP Students take at least two DP courses in any subject groups, a two-year course
in Personal and Professional Skills, as well as courses offered and are relevant to their career-related studies.
LONGVIEW SCHOOL
Longview School's programs are designed for students who receive services through special education and have behavior goals. Therefore, students
must have a current IEP to attend Longview. Support systems are in place that focus on students' behavioral and social-emotional needs. Students
who are referred, have a history of behavioral struggles in school, as well as documented strategies that have been put in place that have not been
successful with helping students maintain behavioral expectations conducive to learning in the school setting. Students who currently attend a Wake
County public schoolmust be referred to Longview by their currentschool, with assistance from the school's assigned behavioralspecialist. The goal at
Longview isto work closely with the referring school's behavioralspecialist to help the studentlearn to control behaviorsso they can transition back to
the base school. Students that are not able to return to the base schools are able to graduate from Longview.
MARY E. PHILLIPS HIGH SCHOOL
Mary E. Phillips High School extends an invitation to any Wake County High School student who has not reached his or her potential within a
traditional school setting. Our philosophical approach and curriculum offer students the opportunity to obtain a high school diploma and a new view
of themselves as capable, competent young adults. The school curriculum is designed to prepare students to continue their education after high
school. Academic needs are met through flexible scheduling, individualized programs, and small class sizes. Varied elective courses are part of the
curriculum with several CTE concentrations available. Independent study, tutorial assistance, library/media services, and state-of-the art technology
enhance our academic program. All students have access to information through technological resources in school and at home. Mary E. Phillips
High School offers courses on a block schedule, which enables students to complete yearlong courses in one semester, in addition to the small class
size and the opportunity for a flexible schedule.
MILLBROOK INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL
All 9th and 10th grade students at International Baccalaureate (IB) World High Schools are a part of the IB Middle Years Programme (MYP). Freshman
and sophomores take classes every year in each of the eight subject areas: Language and Literature (English Language Arts), Language Acquisition
(world language), math, sciences, Individual and Societies, Visual and Performing Arts, Physical Education and Health and Design (CTE/Technology)
classes. The Middle Years Programme incorporates international understanding and global contexts into the core curriculum. During the final year
of the MYP (10th grade), students complete a Personal Project, a culminating experience which demonstrates initiative, organization, and creativity.
In addition, IB World High Schools provide the programme continuation of the IB Middle Years Programmes offered at East Garner Magnet Middle
School and West Millbrook Magnet Middle School.
The International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme is offered to interested 11th and 12th grade students who wish to pursue the most rigorous
and globally focused course of study offered in the United States of America. In addition to academic rigor, students learn through inquiry-based
learning, which fosters academic responsibility and appropriately questions newly learned information. IB Diploma Programme students choose one
subject from each of the six groups (Language and Literature, World Language, Sciences, Math and Individuals and Societies—history, and the Arts),
ensuring breadth of knowledge and understanding in each group. Students also choose either an arts course or a second course from one of the first
five groups.
Citizenship and service are a fundamental component for IB Diploma students. Students earning an International Baccalaureate Diploma have an
internationally recognized degree which broadens their access to colleges around the world.
NORTH WAKE COLLEGE & CAREER ACADEMY
This early college high school serves students in Grades 9-13. The school is a collaborative endeavor between the Wake County Public School System
and Wake Technical Community College. Students at North Wake College & Career Academy (NWCCA) complete studies in one of the Wake Tech
certificate/diploma programs as part of their high school graduation credits. Through an academic foundation of all honors courses, paired with
career-informed courses and work-based learning experiences, graduates of NWCCA will be prepared to continue on to a four-year university or
apply their earned credits towards an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree, certificate or diploma program at Wake Technical Community
College. The five certificate/diploma programs taught by Wake Technical Community College faculty in the 11th and 12th grade to students at the
school are: Business Administration, Culinary Arts, Early Childhood Education, Emergency Medical Sciences, and Information Technology - Tech
Support.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 21
SCORE ACADEMY
SCORE Academy is an alternative, virtual learning environment that offers two programs: SCORE Academy-Reengagement and SCORE AcademyReassignment. SCORE Academy-Reengagement is a blended learning option for students ages 16-21 that have withdrawn from school or have life
barriers that prevent them from regularly attending a traditional school and would like to re-engage and earn a diploma. Current WCPSS students must
be referred by their base school. SCORE Academy-Reassignment is a hybrid virtual school for students who, for behavioral infractions, have been
reassigned for extended periods of time. Both programs are rooted in Restorative Justice Education principles and provide students with the skills to
build personal pathways to success. To better serve students, four locations across the district are available: Cary (Crossroads Flex), Garner (Garner
Station), River Oaks (New Bern Ave.) and North Raleigh (Departure Dr.). Each site employs highly qualified instructors, counselors, social
workers, administrators, and provides all necessary technology. Additionally, ancillary supports are provided as needed to students and families
SOUTHEAST RALEIGH UNIVERSITY CONNECTIONS: SCHOOL OF DESIGN, ARTS. & ENGINEERING MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL
Southeast Raleigh High isthe only University Connections: School of Design, Arts, and Engineering program in the district. This magnet theme focuses
on community partnerships with local colleges, universities, and industry, enhancing existing school programming such as the CTE academy model,
and offering new, innovative experiences in collaboration with higher education and industry. This magnet program is organized into the following
four college and career pathways: 1) Design, 2) Arts, 3) Engineering, Math, and Sciences, and 4) Humanities and Social Sciences. A 9th-grade
University Connections Exploratory Course provides all incoming freshmen with a foundation of the magnet theme, as well as a blueprint for “middle
school to high school” strategies for success, such as the development of “soft skills” necessary for success in high school, college, and career. This
course presents an in-depth overview of the four college and career pathways, including coursework, enrichment opportunities, workplace/realworld experiences, featured guest speakers related to each pathway, research projects, and event, showcase, and exhibit opportunities. This unique
foundation allows students to be well-positioned to “choose their pathway” as they complete their high school career within this dynamic program.
Additionally, interested 11th grade students can elect to participate in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme. This program is for
students who wish to pursue the most rigorous and globally focused course of study offered in the United States of America. In addition to academic
rigor, students learn through inquiry-based learning, which fosters academic responsibility and critical thinking skills. Citizenship and service are a
fundamental component for IB Diploma students. Students earning an International Baccalaureate Diploma have an internationally recognized
degree which broadens their access to colleges around the world.
VERNON MALONE COLLEGE & CAREER ACADEMY
This early college high school serves students in Grades 9-13. The school is a collaborative endeavor between the Wake County Public School System
and Wake Technical Community College. Students at Vernon Malone College & Career Academy (VMCCA) will be able to complete studies in one of
the Wake Tech certificate/diploma programs as part of their high school graduation credits. Through an academic foundation through all honors
courses, paired with career-informed courses and work-based learning experiences, graduates of VMCCA will be prepared to continue on to a fouryear university or apply their earned credits towards an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree, certificate or diploma program at Wake Technical
Community College. The certificate/diploma programs taught by Wake Technical Community College faculty in the 11th and 12th grade to students
are Biopharmaceutical Technology, Cosmetology, Facility Maintenance Technology, Nurse Aide, Simulation & Game Development, and Welding.
WAKE EARLY COLLEGE OF HEALTH AND SCIENCES
Wake Early College of Health and Sciences (WECHS) is a small public high school of choice focused on health and sciences. This early college high
school serves students in grades 9-13. WECHS features a partnership among the Wake County Public School System, Wake Technical Community
College, and WakeMed Health and Hospitals. The classes are located on the Perry Health Sciences or the Scott Northern Campuses of Wake
Tech. While enrolled at WECHS, students participate in an academic program that fulfills North Carolina high school graduation requirements and
allows them to complete college coursework as part of their high school career. WECHS students complete the majority of their high school courses
during their first two years in the program. The remaining three years are dedicated to students earning college credits in pursuit of an associate
degree, health sciences diploma or certificate. College credits completed while enrolled in the school are tuition-free and are transferable to one of
North Carolina’s sixteen public universities.
WAKE EARLY COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND BIOTECHNOLOGIES
Wake Early College of Information and Biotechnologies (WECIB) is a small public school of choice, a joint project between the Wake County Public
School System and Wake Tech Community College. This early college high school serves students in grades 9-13. The classes are located on the RTP
Campus of Wake Tech. While enrolled in WECIB, students participate in an academic program that fulfills North Carolina high school graduation
requirements and allowsthem to complete college coursework as part of their high school career. Through an academic foundation of honors courses
paired with career-informed courses and work-based learning experiences, graduates of WECIB will be able to apply their earned credits towards an
Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree in one of four pathways chosen by the student. They will complete the majority of their high school courses
during their first two years in the program. The remaining three years are dedicated to students earning college credits in pursuit of an AAS degree
in one of the following pathways: Computer Programming, Cybersecurity, Network Management, or Biotechnology. College credits completed while
enrolled in the school are tuition-free, while some credits will be transferable to one of North Carolina’ssixteen public universities. Students at WECIB
will also earn industry credentials through their pathway of choice.
WAKE STEM EARLY COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL
The Wake STEM Early College High School is a small public school of choice, a joint project between the Wake County Public School System and NC
State University. This early college high school serves students in grades 9-13. STEM is the theme of the school’s program in addition to our identity
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 22
as an early college. Early college means students take college courses at NCSU as well as the courses required to earn a high school diploma over a
five-year period. Exploration of the Grand Challenges for Engineering is a common instructional focus that extends through various courses in the
program. Because engineering involves so many areas of math and science it is a great scaffold on which to build a STEM education.
WAKE YOUNG MEN’S LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
Wake Young Men’s Leadership Academy (WYMLA) is a grade 6-13 single-gender academy. WYMLA’s mission is to develop young men into leaders
who have a positive impact on their communities through Scholarship, Service, and Success. Located on two campuses, grades 6-10 are held in the
Thompson School Building in downtown Raleigh, NC and grades 11-13 are located at Shaw University. Students in grades 11-13 have the opportunity
to take college courses through Shaw University that counts both towards their high school diploma and for college credit. WYMLA is focused on
providing our gentlemen with access to college preparatory courses, developing their leadership skills, and providing them opportunities to apply
their leadership skills.
WAKE YOUNG WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
Wake Young Women's Leadership Academy (WYWLA) provides educational opportunities for young women in a rigorous single gender academic
program. The school emphasizes leadership development, entrepreneurship, and community service. WYWLA’s mission is to develop young women
to be college-ready, career-focused leaders who serve their communities. WYWLA serves students in grades 6-13 on two academic campuses.
Students in grades 6-10 attend classes on the Governor Morehead Campus and students in grades 11-13 attend classes at Shaw University. WYWLA’s
academic program includes a strong college preparatory curriculum with honors, accelerated classes, college level courses, leadership enrichment
studies, and foreign language.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 23
Arts Education Courses
 Students entering 9th grade in 2025-2026 must have 1 credit in an Arts course for a diploma taken between 6th and graduation
 Previous performance in Arts Education courses and teacher recommendation should be considered in course selection. Arts courses may be repeated for credit
including Honors level courses.
Visual Art
DRAWING – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE)
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning or portfolio
54622X0A 1 CREDIT
This course introducesthe elements and principles of design through an exploration of various drawing media techniques.
PAINTING – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 54635X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Intermediate or portfolio
This course developsthe elements and principles of design through an exploration of a broad range of various painting media and techniques.
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) 54622X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning or portfolio
Students begin to develop their knowledge and technical abilities in three-dimensional design through the medium of clay and othersculptural materials. Various types
of clay construction and glazing techniques are explored. Emphasis will be placed on technique, originality, planning and organizing three-dimensional compositions.
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 54635X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning Sculpture/Ceramics or portfolio
Students expand their knowledge and technical abilities in three-dimensional design through the medium of clay (hand building and/or wheel) and other sculptural
materials (plaster, wood, wire, papier-mache, etc.). All types of construction, glaze formulation, and firing techniques are explored. Form and shape are stressed using
materials appropriate to sculpting. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in design and production, and extensive knowledge of a variety of art
forms.
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) HONORS 54645X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Sculpture/Ceramics Proficient or portfolio
Students who have demonstrated advanced skill levels in previous Sculpture & Ceramics courses are eligible to take honors level Sculpture & Ceramics III. Success at
the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in design and production, and extensive knowledge of a variety of art forms. Students initiate, define, and solve
challenging sculpture problems independently using intellectual skills such as analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Students have in-depth experiences in reflecting upon
and assessing the characteristics and merits of their work and the work of others.
This course offers a concentrated study in sculptural areas selected cooperatively between the art teacher and the student. Students are challenged by the teacher to
evaluate their art products to solve problems in terms of the chosen art media and learn concepts and skills as these relate to personal art expressions. Students will
be working towards specific portfolio goals in wheel and/or hand-building with clay, other non- clay sculptural media, (plaster, wood, wire, papier-mache, etc.) artist
research, and a concentrated area of study where the work will focus on a specific theme of the student’s choosing.
VISUAL ARTS - BEGINNING 54152X0A 1 CREDIT
This course introducesthe elements and principles of design through an exploration of a broad range of media. Activities emphasize skills and techniquesin the following
areas: drawing, painting, graphics, fibers, ceramics, art history, and three-dimensional design (fibers, ceramics, etc.).
VISUAL ARTS - INTERMEDIATE 54162X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning or portfolio
This course offers an in-depth study of design through repeated use of art elements and principles, while expanding technical abilities. Design is taught through
experiences in the following areas: drawing and painting, art history printmaking (silk screening, lino cuts and/or woodcuts), and three- dimensional design (wood, clay,
fibers).
VISUAL ARTS - PROFICIENT HONORS 54175X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Intermediate or portfolio
This level of advanced art involves more in-depth knowledge of processes, media, history, and the development of art. Students understand and apply all skills through
a variety of media. Success at the honorslevel requires rigorousstudy, excellence in design and production, and extensive knowledge of a variety of art forms. Students
are encouraged to explore a variety of media, to produce experimental culturally significant works of art, and to gain an extensive knowledge of art history.
VISUAL ARTS - ADVANCED HONORS 54185X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Proficient or portfolio
This course offers a concentrated study in areas selected cooperatively between the art teacher and the student. Students are challenged by the teacher to evaluate
their art products to solve problems in terms of the chosen art media and learn concepts and skills as they relate to personal art expressions. Students will be working
towards specific portfolio goals in Drawing/Painting, Color & Design, artist research, and a concentrated area of study where the work will focus on a specific theme or
the student’s choosing. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in design and production, and extensive knowledge of a variety of art forms.
Students initiate, define, and solve challenging visual arts problems independently using intellectual skills such as analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Students have indepth experiences in reflecting upon and assessing the characteristics and merits of their work and the work of others.
AP STUDIO ART 2D DESIGN 5A027X0 1 CREDIT
AP STUDIO ART 3D DESIGN 5A037X0 1 CREDIT
AP STUDIO ART DRAWING
Recommended prerequisite(s): Two (2) creditsin visual arts at the high school level.
5A047X0 1 CREDIT
Emphasis is placed on studio art. It is expected that students enrolled in these courses will take the College Board AP Exam. The student must prepare and submit a
portfolio to the AP Visual Arts Committee of The College Board for college credit approval. Success at the AP level requires rigorous study, excellence in design and
production, and extensive knowledge of a variety of art forms. Studentsinitiate, define, and solve challenging visual arts problemsindependently using intellectualskills
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 24
such as analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Students have in-depth experiences in reflecting upon and assessing the characteristics and merits of their work and the
work of others.
COMPUTER ART AND ANIMATION - VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) 54622X0E 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning or portfolio
Students experience the elements of design through the electronic medium. Projects involve simple optical design, illustrations, contour line, drawings, perspective,
paintings, composition involved in desktop publishing, and introduction to 2D animation.
COMPUTER ART AND ANIMATION - VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 54635X0E 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Computer Art and Animation – Intermediate or portfolio
Students in this Level II course carry those concepts studied in Level I to a new and more challenging height. Students develop the following: product package layouts,
story illustrations, logo design, advanced painting solutions, drawing problems, and advanced animation.
COMMERCIAL ART: PRINTMAKING/TEXTILES-VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) 54622X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Visual Arts – Beginning or portfolio
This course is designed for the student who has completed at least one credit of high school art and has a special interest in printmaking and textiles. Some of the
following processes are taught in printmaking: block printing, silk screen, intaglio, relief printing, and etching. In textiles students expand their knowledge and technical
skills in two- and three-dimensional design. Areas explored include macramé, batik, soft sculpture, and weaving.
ART HISTORY – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) 54612X0A 1 CREDIT
This course is a comprehensive study of art through the ages. Students explore works of famous artists within the cultural context of each time period. This integrated
approach encourages understanding of humanity from a visual arts perspective.
AP ART HISTORY 5A007X0 1 CREDIT
This advanced art history course requiresstudents to make extensive connections between the art of each time period and itsrelationship to culture. Students enrolled
in this course are encouraged to take the College Board AP Exam.
INDEPENDENT STUDY – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) HONORS 54645X0B 1 CREDIT
The student works independently in a special area of concentration selected by the student with the visual arts teacher's approval. A student must have a sponsoring
teacher and must have arranged a program of study prior to registering for this course.
Dance
DANCE - BEGINNING 51152X0A 1 CREDIT
This course introduces students to movement and choreography through the elements of dance. Students will use whole body movements, strength, flexibility,
endurance, and proper alignment to develop dance technique. Students will use dance to explore concepts in world history and relate them to significant events, ideas,
and movements from a global context. Students will use appropriate behaviors and etiquette while observing, creating and performing dance. Dance attire is required
and will be determined by the teacher. Participation in class, after-school rehearsals, and performances is expected.
DANCE - INTERMEDIATE 51162X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Audition or portfolio review using the WCPSS Placement Assessment Tool
This course continues the development of intermediate movement skills and choreography through an enhanced application of dance techniques. Students apply
technical skills from a variety of dance forms to enhance performance at an intermediate level. Students will use dance to explore concepts in world history and relate
them to significant events, ideas, and movementsfrom a global context. Students will use appropriate behaviors and etiquette whole observing, creating and performing
dance. Dance attire is required and will be determined by the teacher. Participation in class, after-school rehearsals, and performances is expected.
DANCE - PROFICIENT HONORS 51175X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Dance – Intermediate or audition
Technical skills and aesthetic awareness are developed through more challenging dance technique and choreography classes. Success at the proficient level requires
rigorous study in technique, performance, dance history, anatomy and deep aesthetic awareness. In addition, students demonstrate dance literacy through researchbased projects and dance criticism. Dance attire is required and will be determined by the teacher. Participation in class, after-school rehearsals, and performances is
expected.
DANCE - ADVANCED HONORS 51185X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Audition or Portfolio review using the WCPSS Placement Assessment Tool
Success at the advanced level requires rigorous study, excellence in technical performance, and deep aesthetic awareness. Advanced dance is a challenging technique
class where students present and produce their own choreography. Students will demonstrate dance literacy through research-based projects and dance criticism.
Dance attire is required and will be determined by the teacher. Participation in class, after-school rehearsals, and performances is expected.
INDEPENDENT STUDY – DANCE SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) HONORS 51285X0A 1 CREDIT
The student works independently in a special area of concentration selected by the student with the dance teacher's approval. A student must have a sponsoring
teacher and must have arranged a program of study prior to registering for this course.
Theatre Arts
THEATRE ARTS - BEGINNING 53152X0A 1 CREDIT
This course introduces students to the basic aspects of movement, vocal expression, and ensemble work. Class activities include pantomime, improvisation, vocal
development, playwriting, and solo/collaborative presentations in acting and theatre production (costumes, lighting, makeup, scenery, and sound). The course offers
opportunities to present before an audience.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 25
THEATRE ARTS – INTERMEDIATE 53162X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Theatre Arts – Beginning or audition
Students continue to develop vocal and physical acting skills (including in-depth character analysis and development) and playwriting. Various acting styles are
introduced along with opportunitiesto explore directing. Studentsfocus on the history and development of theatre in Western Civilization. Class activitiesinclude more
challenging improvisation, vocal development, solo/collaborative presentations in acting, directing, and theatre production (costumes, lighting, makeup, scenery, and
sound). Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
THEATRE ARTS - PROFICIENT HONORS 53175X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Theatre Arts – Intermediate or audition
Students apply acting, directing, playwriting, and production skills developed in previous theatre training. Students produce polished and complex works for an
audience. Additional acting styles are introduced and developed. Participating in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
THEATRE ARTS - ADVANCED HONORS 53185X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Theatre Arts – Proficient or audition
Students advance acting, directing, playwriting, and production skills developed in previous theatre training. Students assume leadership roles in the production of
polished and complex works for an audience. Various acting and directing styles are practiced. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in
performance, and extensive knowledge of all areas of theatre including production and directing, and an in-depth study of a variety of dramatic literature. Students are
encouraged to explore a variety of theatrical styles and work with others to produce experimental, culturally significant works of art. Participation in after-school
rehearsals and performances is expected.
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) 53612X0A 1 CREDIT
Students explore the various aspects of design and production for theatre. Areas of study may include scenery, lighting, sound, makeup, properties, costumes, and
stage management.
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) 53622X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Technical Theatre – Beginning
Students develop technical skills through design and production. Technical support for school productions requires participation in after-school rehearsals and
performances.
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 53635X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Technical Theatre – Intermediate
Students who have demonstrated a high skill level in technical theatre can continue to study various areas of technical theatre by focusing on more advanced design
and production skills. Students are expected to participate in after-school rehearsals and performances as well as provide technical support for school- based events.
INDEPENDENT STUDY – THEATRE – THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) HONORS 53645X0A 1 CREDIT
The student works independently in a special area of concentration selected by the student with the theatre teacher’s approval. A student must have a sponsoring
teacher and must have arranged a program of study prior to registering for this course.
PROGRAMMING AND BROADCASTING - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) 53612X0B 1 CREDIT
This course sets the historical and aesthetic foundation for responsible interpretation, usage, and application of television production. The student develops screen
experience from a critical standpoint, progresses to understanding the technical aspects, and finally uses professional equipment to create video productions.
PROGRAMMING & BROADCASTING – THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) 53622X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Programming and Broadcasting – Beginning or teacher recommendation
Students continue to develop the basic academic skills and concepts in many short-written exercises as well as longer script writing projects. The student's own ideas
are used in developing studio productions through directing, recording, editing, and utilizing color cameras, professional lighting, and sound equipment as well as a
special effects generator.
PROGRAMMING & BROADCASTING - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 53635X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Programming and Broadcasting –Intermediate or teacher recommendation
This course challenges students who have prior television experience. Students take on the total responsibility of writing, producing, directing, recording, and editing a
daily news program for the school. Students at this level are expected to provide technical support for activities after school hours.
Choral Music
CHORAL MUSIC 1 BEGINNING 52302X0D 1 CREDIT
This introductory course is open to all students who have an interest in singing. In this class, choral literature is studied in both classical and contemporary fields.
Some study is given to a review of the mechanics of music, composers, and music appreciation. Emphasis is placed on correct vocal production, proficiency in music
reading, and performance skills. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
CHORAL MUSIC 2 INTERMEDIATE 52312X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Choral Music – Beginning with audition/teacher placement. Students will demonstrate proficient skills relating to vocal production,
music theory knowledge, and performance techniques. This group studies and performs choral literature that include diverse genres and historical periods. Emphasis
is on refined tone quality, balance, intonation, interpretation, and ear training. A practice of sight-reading and musical literacy skills are prerequisites to participate at
this level of study. Students continue developing vocal skills through extensive study of classical and contemporary works. A higher level of knowledge in sight-reading
and a basic understanding of the fundamentals of music are necessary because of the vast amount of choral literature taught and memorized during the year.
Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
CHORAL MUSIC 3 PROFICIENT HONORS 52325X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Choral Music – Intermediate with audition/teacher placement. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in
performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including music theory, and an in-depth study of a variety of advanced music literature. Participation in afterschool rehearsals and performances is expected.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 26
CHORAL MUSIC 4 ADVANCED HONORS 52335X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Choral Music – Proficient with audition/teacher placement. Students will demonstrate proficient skills relating to vocal production,
music theory knowledge, and performance techniques. This group studies and performs more advanced levels of choral literature, including diverse genres and historical
periods. Emphasis is on refined tone quality, balance, intonation, interpretation, and ear training. Strong sight-reading and musical literacy skills are prerequisite to
participate at this level of study. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including
music theory, and an in- depth study of a variety of advanced music literature. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
MUSIC THEORY – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 52185X0A 1 CREDIT
This course is a study of notation, musical form and analysis,sight-reading, and some form of composition/arranging skills.
AP MUSIC THEORY 5A017X0 1 CREDIT
Advanced music theory involvesthe study of harmonic and form analysis and multiple-part composition and orchestration. This course involvesformal analysis of music
from the Baroque, Classical, Romantic, Impressionistic, and 20th Century periods. Students further their skills in ear training. It is expected that students enrolled in this
course will take the College Board AP Exam.
MUSIC APPRECIATION – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) 52162X0A 1 CREDIT
This course focuses on music'srelationship to other arts disciplines, humanities, and world cultures.
Instrumental Music
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – BEGINNING 52552X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Middle School band or audition
This course introduces basic instrumental music skills. Studentsfocus on the fundamentals of music, correct tone production, balance, intonation, and ensemble playing
through the study of simple band literature. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – INTERMEDIATE 52562X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Band – Beginning or audition
Students continue to study the fundamentals of music while performing more advanced literature. Aesthetic awareness and technical ability are developed through a
variety of performance opportunities. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – PROFICIENT HONORS 52575X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Band – Intermediate or audition
Students develop their ability to play with increased technical accuracy and expression. Students play more advanced literature representing diverse genres, styles, and
cultures. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including music theory, and an indepth study of a variety of advanced music literature. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – ADVANCED HONORS 52585X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Band – Proficient HONORS or audition
Students demonstrate a high level of technical proficiency through a variety of advanced instrumental literature. An understanding of the broad aspects of music
(theory, history, tone production, interpretation), are necessary for success in this advanced level course.
Students who have demonstrated advanced skill level and serious commitment are eligible to take honors level Band IV. Success at the honors level requires rigorous
study, excellence in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including music theory, and an in-depth study of a variety of advanced music literature.
Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: JAZZ ENSEMBLE – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 52185X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Band – Intermediate and/or audition
This group studies jazz phrasing and articulation as well as the technique of improvisation and playing in correct jazz style. Participation in after-school rehearsals and
performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – BEGINNING 52402X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Middle School Strings or audition
This course is designed to introduce studentsto playing a stringed instrument (violin, viola, cello, and bass). Students will learn the fundamentals orrhythm, not reading,
posture, following the conductor and learning to perform as a group. Appropriate use of musical terms, dynamic markings, and the parts and care of stringed
instruments are emphasized.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – INTERMEDIATE 52412X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Orchestra – Beginning or audition
This course further developstechnical and artistic skillsstudied in previous music training. Emphasisis placed on performance of more advanced literature and increased
aural discrimination. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – PROFICIENT HONORS 52425X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Orchestra – Intermediate or audition
Advanced students continue to improve technical proficiency, greater understanding of music notation, increased aural discrimination, and artistic interpretation.
Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including music theory, and an in-depth study
of a variety of advanced music literature. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA - ADVANCED HONORS 52435X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Orchestra – Proficient HONORS or audition
Advanced students build ensemble performance skills while studying challenging literature.
Success at the honors level requires rigorousstudy, excellence in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas of music including music theory, and an in-depth study
of a variety of advanced music literature. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 27
INDEPENDENT STUDY – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) HONORS 52195X0A 1 CREDIT
The student works independently in a special area of concentration selected by the student with the music teacher's approval. A student must have a sponsoring
teacher and must have arranged a program of study prior to registering for this course.
MUSICAL THEATRE ORCHESTRA – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) HONORS 52185X0G 1 CREDIT
Scores from musicals are learned in this course, and students accompany musical performances in the school in cooperation with the drama department. Participation
in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATIONBEGINNING 52162X0D 1 CREDIT
Students will learn the basics of playing guitar through the study of music notation, chord symbols, and group interaction. Students will gain an enhanced appreciation
for music and understand a variety of musical genres. Participation in after-school rehearsals and performances is expected.
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION INTERMEDIATE 52172X0D 1 CREDIT
Students will increase their technical skills and artistic awarenessthrough continued study of increasingly challenging music. Participation in after-school rehearsals and
performances is expected.
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION- PROFICIENT HONORS 52185X0D 1 CREDIT
Advanced guitar students develop their ability to play with increased technical accuracy and expression. Success at the honors level requires rigorous study, excellence
in performance, extensive knowledge of all areas including music theory and an in-depth study of advanced music literature. Participation in after- school rehearsals
and performances are expected.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 28
Career & Technical Education
Planning for College
The Wake County Public School System offers a comprehensive Career and Technical Education program for students in middle and high schools. Courses are offered
in Agricultural Education; Business, Finance, and Information Technology Education; Career Development Education; Family and Consumer Sciences Education; Health
Science; Marketing and Entrepreneurship Education; Technology Engineering and Design Education; and Trade and Industrial Education. All programs may not be
offered at each middle and high school.
The Wake County Public School System does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age in its programs and activities. The Office
of Equity Affairs has been designated to handle inquiries regarding equity and the non-discrimination policies and may be reached at (919) 694-7903.
Students are entering a highly competitive global workforce. Nearly 90 percent of the fastest growing jobs in the US require education beyond high school. Almost all
jobs in the foreseeable future will need some form of certification, credential, or postsecondary degree. To become college and career ready, students need 21st
century skills, technical knowledge, as well as the English and mathematics knowledge and skills necessary to succeed in entry-level postsecondary courses.
With an emphasis on real-world skills, Career and Technical Education connects students to academics and training that will help them be successful in the future. Our
goal is that every Wake County Public School System student will graduate from high school globally competitive for work and postsecondary education and prepared
for life in the 21st century. No matter what their dream, they can pursue it through CTE. Students should see their counselor and Career Development Coordinator to
identify courses that will develop the skills they need to become college, career and citizenship ready.
The following are a list of online resourcesthat can assist in planning for college and careers:
College and Career Planning Resources Web Address
College Foundation of North Carolina www.cfnc.org
Career One Stop www.Careeronestop.org
Education Planner www.educationplanner.org
College Career Life Planning www.collegecareerlifeplanning.com
College Board www.collegeboard.org
O*NET Online www.onetonline.org/
ACT www.act.org
Kiplinger’s Best College Values www.kiplinger.com/tools/colleges/
My Plan www.Myplan.com
NC Works Online https://www.ncworks.gov/vosnet/Default.aspx
NC Careers http://nccareers.org/
Major Clarity https://majorclarity.com/
In addition to student interest, previous performance in Career and Technical Education (CTE) courses and teacher recommendation should be considered in course
selection. Students are encouraged to complete at least four credits in a pathway while in high school. CTE courses are enhanced by an array of work-based learning
opportunities. These include content-related projects, job shadowing,supervised work experiences, internships, apprenticeships, cooperative education, and field trips.
These are particularly applicable to advanced-level courses.
A Career and Technical StudentOrganization (CTSO) is an integral part of each program area’s curriculum. Any student enrolled in a CTE course is eligible formembership
in the Career and Technical Student Organization (CTSO) associated with that program area. The CTSOs are:
● DECA for Marketing and Entrepreneurship Education
● Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) for Business, Finance and Information Technology Education
● Future Farmers of America (FFA) for Agricultural Education
● Family, Career and Community Leaders of America (FCCLA) for Family and Consumer Sciences Education
● Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA) for Health Science
● Technology Student Association (TSA) for Technology, Engineering and Design
● SkillsUSA for Trade and Industrial Education
This portion of the Program Planning Guide is arranged by Career Cluster and then by Career Pathway. The courses listed may not be taught at every high school within
the district and students are encouraged to request a listing of courses offered at their assigned school. The chart and course listings reflect a recommended order or
sequence. Many courses are available for Honors credit and those identified with an asterisk (*) are considered concentrator coursesfor a pathway. Course descriptions
include applicable work-based learning activities and the related CTSO. Students may also be eligible to complete an industry- recognized credential as part of their CTE
pathway completion. Course descriptions also note the aligned credentials. More information about CTE courses and pathways can be found at the NC Career and
Technical Education Course Management System website (https://center.ncsu.edu/nccte-cms/).
Career Development Coordinators, counselors, and CTE teachers are valuable resourcesto consult when selecting courses.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 29
Understanding Career Pathways
CTE Career Pathway charts are included for each Career Pathway offered and are organized asfollows:
● WCPSS Pathways are grouped by National Career Clusters and Pathwaysshown in blue headings.
● Pathway courses are designated in white beginning with either a Foundational Prerequisite or a Recommended Pathway Entry Course.
● Prerequisite courses are listed in the second column and must be completed before students can enroll in the Concentrator Course, shown in orange in the
third column.
● Students are considered Concentrators when they successfully complete the Concentrator Course and related prerequisite(s).
● Career Pathway Major courses offer an extension of the pathway learning and alwaysinclude some work-based learning offerings.
● Supplemental Career Employability Skills and Supplemental Technical Courses provide additional skills for students to deepen their knowledge, skills and
abilities and better prepare them for careers.
● CTE encouragesstudentsto utilize as many courses as possible in the pathway.
AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Animal Systems
 Animal Science (ANSC)
Foundational Prerequisite Prerequisite Concentrator Career Pathway Major
N/A AA21 Animal
Science I
AA22 Animal Science II- Food Animal
AA23 Animal Science II - Companion
Animal
AA41 Veterinary Assisting
 WI02 CTE Internship AGNR
WS02 CTE Advanced Studies AGNR
Supplemental Career Employability Skills
Courses
OI00 IB Personal and Professional Skills
CC10 Microsoft Word and PowerPoint
ED45 Career Management
Supplemental Technical Courses AU10 Foundations of Agriculture
Career & College Promise Approved Career & College Promise Career Technical Education Pathway
Career and Technical Student
Organizations
The National FFA Organization
North Carolina FFA Association
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community.
Establish an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural
resources. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 30
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
ANIMAL SCIENCE I AA212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the impact animal physiology has on animal nutrition and health. IDentify animals using physical traits and characteristics. Implement best management
practices to select healthy animals. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom
instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Animal Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Youth for Quality Care of Animals(YQCA) Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
ANIMAL SCIENCE I HONORS AA215X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements, Animal Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and passthe appropriate
industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Youth for Quality Care of Animals(YQCA) Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
ANIMAL SCIENCE II – FOOD ANIMAL HONORS AA225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA21 Animal Science I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Expand knowledge of animal anatomy and physiology and utilize genetics to improve animal performance. Formulate nutrition plans to produce food animals and
design facilities to manage animal production systems. Develop an understanding of veterinary terminology and practices. Build leadership and employability skills
through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in
the Animal Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC BeefQuality Assurance, NC Beef Quality Assurance Cow/Calf Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
ANIMAL SCIENCE II - COMPANION ANIMAL AA232X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA21 Animal Science I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Integrate safe handling practicesto groom and care for companion animals and identify companion animals using physical traits and characteristics. Illustrate knowledge
of nutritional and digestive needs through experiential activities. Establish a foundation of veterinary medical terminology and procedures. Build leadership and
employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and
skills for careers in the Animal Science Pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
ANIMAL SCIENCE II - COMPANION ANIMAL HONORS AA235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA21 Animal Science I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements, Animal Science II - Companion Animal, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more
challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to
take and pass the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
VETERINARY ASSISTING HONORS AA415X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA22 Animal Science II-Food Animal or AA23 Animal Science II-Companion Animal; Designed for11th or 12th grade students with an interest in animal
medicine
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 15
Develop the skills, techniques, and knowledge to earn a veterinary assistant credential. Perform proper veterinary practice management and client relations through
hands-on skills. Formulate veterinary medical dosages using appropriatemedical terminology. Establish animal handling skillsin practicum settings and establish surgical
and radiological procedures through sills-bases scenarios. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural
Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careersin the Animal Science Pathway. Students who wish to take the
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 31
Veterinary Assisting Exam developed by Texas Veterinary Medical Association to be a Certified Veterinary Assistant (CVA) Level 1 should complete an additional 500
hours of supervised agricultural experience (SAE) during their three animal science courses. Two hundred SAE hoursfocus on the care and management of animals; will
be substantiated by records and conducted under the direct supervision of the agricultural teacher. Hours may be earned any time during the year including summer
months. An additional 300 hours of supervised agricultural experience (worked based learning) will be conducted as an internship program in animal medicine under
the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or certified veterinary technician who will attest that participating students have mastered a standard set of skills used in
animal medicine as identified by the cooperating teacher. Hours may be earned any time during the year including summer months.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Elanco Veterinary Medical Applications Certification, Certified Veterinary Assistant
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
Equine Science
Equine Science (EQSC)
Foundational Prerequisite Prerequisite Concentrator Career Pathway Major
N/A AA31 Equine Science I AA32 Equine
Science II
AA41 Veterinary Assisting
WI02 CTE Internship AGNR
 WS02 CTE Advanced Studies
Supplemental Employability Skills Courses
OI00 IB Personal and Professional Skills
CC10 Microsoft Word and PowerPoint
ED45 Career Management
Supplemental Technical Courses AA21 Animal Science I
AU10 Foundations of Agriculture
Career & College Promise Approved Career & College Promise Career Technical Education Pathway
Career and Technical Student Organizations The National FFA Organization
 North Carolina FFA Association
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community.
Establish an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural
resources. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
EQUINE SCIENCE I AA312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Connect environmental factors to equine behavior. Conceptualize how anatomy influences equine movement and internal organs. Build knowledge of nutritional
physiology and feeding management of horses. Explore the tools and equipment used to support equine sports and recreation through hands-on activities. Build
leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experiences (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain
the knowledge and skills for careers in the Equine Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
EQUINE SCIENCE II HONORS AA325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA31 Equine Science I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop advanced applications in feeding and management of equine. Participate in the selection of horses for multiple equine disciplines based on the structure and
functionality of the animal. Develop facility and management plansfor horses. Monitor equine health through diagnostic procedures. Build leadership and employability
skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for
careers in the Equine Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Equine Management and Evaluation Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 32
VETERINARY ASSISTING HONORS AA415X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AA22 Animal Science II-Food Animal or AA23 Animal Science II-Companion Animal; Designed for11th or 12th grade students with an interest in animal
medicine
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 15
Develop the skills, techniques, and knowledge to earn a veterinary assistant credential. Perform proper veterinary practice management and client relations through
hands-on skills. Formulate veterinary medical dosages using appropriatemedical terminology. Establish animal handling skillsin practicum settings and establish surgical
and radiological procedures through sills-bases scenarios. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural
Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Animal Science Pathway. Students who wish to take the
Veterinary Assisting Exam developed by Texas Veterinary Medical Association to be a Certified Veterinary Assistant (CVA) Level 1 should complete an additional 500
hours of supervised agricultural experience (SAE) during their three animal science courses. Two hundred SAE hoursfocus on the care and management of animals; will
be substantiated by records and conducted under the direct supervision of the agricultural teacher. Hours may be earned any time during the year including summer
months. An additional 300 hours of supervised agricultural experience (worked based learning) will be conducted as an internship program in animal medicine under
the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or certified veterinary technician who will attest that participating students have mastered a standard set of skills used in
animal medicine as identified by the cooperating teacher. Hours may be earned any time during the year including summer months.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Elanco Veterinary Medical Applications Certification, Certified Veterinary Assistant
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
Food Products & Processing Systems
FOOD AND NUTRITION I FN412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Note: For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
 Formulate an understanding of nutrition for a healthy lifestyle by preparing foods in each food group. Develop kitchen skills that promote proper food handling practice.
Plan and execute meal management. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in food and nutrition.
● Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServeSafe Food Handler
FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY HONORS FN435X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FN41 Food and Nutrition
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the food industry from the farm to the table using skills in food science and technology. Realize the functions of food and how it affects the food individuals eat.
Design food packaging to deploy a new food product to the market. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in food products and processing.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Food Safety and Science Certification
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No
 Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 33
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY I FH102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Note, Forsafety and sanitation reasons, enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
 Utilize foodservice equipment and tools in preparation of numerous types of cuisines. Practice culinary skills in baking, garde manger, and basic cooking methods.
 Practice safety and sanitation to prepare for the foodservice industry. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in culinary arts and hospitality.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler
 Sustainable Agriculture
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community.
Establish an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural
resources. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION I AU212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment 25
Investigate the increasingly complex world of producing enough food and fiberto meet the growing world demand through exploration activities. Examine the ecological
balance to conserve natural resources in a local and global setting. Implement environmentally sound practices for various facets of agricultural production such as
agroforestry, foods safety, and the farm-to-form continuum. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural
Experiences (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Sustainable Agriculture pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization (FFA)
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION I HONORS AU215X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Sustainable Agriculture Production I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more
challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to
take and pass the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization (FFA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 34
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION II AU222X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AU21 Sustainable Agriculture Production I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Enhance knowledge of 21st century agriculture through the continued exploration of renewable energy, precision agriculture biotechnology and sustainable agriculture
breeding programs in an experiential setting. Implement production methods to sustain a growing population in the areas of bees, aquaponics, mushrooms, and
vermicomposting. Facilitate the business and marketing aspects of agriculture production systems. Convey food safety practices in each facet of agriculture production.
Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the sustainable Agriculture pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization (FFA)
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION II HONORS AU225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AU21 Sustainable Agriculture Production I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Sustainable Agriculture Production II, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more
challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to
take and pass the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization (FFA)
Plant Systems
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community. Establish
an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural resources. Build
leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the
knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
 • Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
 • Aligned Industry Credential: None
 • Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
HORTICULTURE I INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS AP412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Grow your knowledge of plant biology and environmental conditions plants need to thrive. Cultivate plant identification skills and experiment with propagation and
production practices. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and
FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Plant Systems pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience
(SAE) Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
HORTICULTURE I INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS HONORS AP415X0 1 CREDIT
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 35
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
In addition to the standard course requirements, Horticulture I, this honors-level course extendsthe standard course ofstudy to a more challenging level for the student
who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass the appropriate
industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
HORTICULTURE II PLANT PRODUCTION AP422X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AP41 Horticulture I Introduction to Plants
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Cultivate skills related to greenhouse, nursery, floral, and edible plant production, and maintenance practices. Experience the requirements to grow and maintain
healthy plants and floral products through work-based learning opportunities. Build leadership development and employability skills through authentic experiences
from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Plant Systems pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
HORTICULTURE II PLANT PRODUCTION HONORS AP425X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AP41 Horticulture I Introduction to Plants
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
In addition to the standard course requirements, Horticulture II – Plant Production, this honors-level course extendsthe standard course of study to a more challenging
level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass
the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
HORTICULTURE II-LANDSCAPE CONSTRUCTION HONORS AP445X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AP41 Horticulture I Introduction to Plants
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Design landscapes that meet client demands. Implement landscape installation and maintenance skills through work-based learning opportunities. Gain the knowledge
and skills for landscape careers in the horticulture pathway. Build leadership development and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised
Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Plant Systems pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
TURFGRASS MANAGEMENT AL432X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AP41 Horticulture I Introduction to Plants
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
This course is designed to introduce studentsto the fundamentals of plantscience and soils asrelated to the turfgrassindustry. It also focuses on specific areasincluding
environmental issues, turfgrass maintenance, lawn care and production, sports turf, irrigation, turf equipment, turfgrass management, and public relations. The course
also includes agricultural leadership and employability skills. English language arts, mathematics, and science are reinforced.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 36
Power, Structural, & Technical Systems
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community.
Establish an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural
resources. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS I AS312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*Course enrollment islimited to 20 to ensure safety in laboratory settings.
This course develops knowledge and technical skills in the broad field of agricultural machinery, equipment, and structures. The primary purpose of this course is to
prepare students to handle the day-to-day problems and repair needs they will encounter in their chosen agricultural career. Topics include agricultural mechanics
safety, agricultural engineering career opportunities, hand/power tool use and selection, electrical wiring, fencing, paints and preservatives, basic metal working, basic
agricultural construction skills related to plumbing, carpentry, basic welding, and leadership development. English language arts, mathematics, and science are
reinforced.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: OSHA 10-Hour General Industry (Agriculture) Certification
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
AGRICULTURALMECHANICS I HONORS AS315X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*Course enrollment islimited to 20 to ensure safety in laboratory settings.
In addition to the standard course requirements for Sustainable Agriculture Production II, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more
challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to
take and pass the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience
(SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: OSHA 10-Hour General Industry (Agriculture) Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
AGRICULTURALMECHANICS II HONORS AS325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AS31 Agricultural Mechanics I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*Course enrollment islimited to 20 to ensure safety in laboratory settings.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 37
Understand metal fabrication technology to implement hot/cold metal working skills and technology, advanced welding and metal cutting skills. Build non-metallic
agricultural fabrication techniques. Utilize tools and equipment safely to work with plastics, plumbing, concrete, and masonry. Build leadership and employability skills
through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in
Power, Structural, and Technical Systems pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience
(SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: AWS Certified Welder D1.1 Structural Steel, National Safe Tractor and Machinery Operation Certification
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS II - SMALL ENGINES HONORS AS335X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AS31 Agricultural Mechanics I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 12
Implement knowledge of four-cycle small engines to obtain an industry recognized credential. Execute skills compression and ignition system repair and maintenance.
Facilitate regulation of fuel and governor small engine function. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural
Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Power, Structural, and Technical Systems pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
● Aligned Industry Credential: North Carolina State Competency Certification
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
Natural Resources
 FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE AU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the sectors of the agriculture industry through hands-on activities. Develop a foundation of agricultural literacy to become an advocate in the community.
Establish an understanding of the process to produce agricultural commodities in the areas of plant science, agriculture mechanics, animal science, and natural
resources. Build leadership and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
NATIONAL RESOURCES I AN512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop knowledge of renewable and non-renewable natural resources in an agricultural education setting. Explore forestry and wildlife habitat management
procedures through hands-on activities. Practice skills and methods used to evaluate and classify soils. Examine land use regulations to support environmental quality.
Build leadership development and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 38
NATIONAL RESOURCES II AN522X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AN51 Natural ResourcesI
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Examine best management practices and sampling techniques to support natural resource conservation. Develop forestry identification and management skills.
Discover prescribed conservation techniques to enhance forestry and wildlife habitats and explore a variety of natural resources recreational opportunities. Build
leadership development and employability skills through authentic experiences from Supervised Agricultural Experiences (SAE), classroom instruction, and FFA
participation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - HONORS AN525X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AN51 Natural ResourcesI
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Natural Resources II, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for
the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass the
appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - FORESTRY AN532X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AN51 Natural ResourcesI
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore forest cultivation, conservation, and management and timber harvesting and processing to prepare students for a career in the forestry industry. Implement
skills in tree identification and timber measurement. Develop forestry knowledge and skills to attain an industry recognized credential. Gain the knowledge and skills
for careers in Natural Resources pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Forestry Worker- Forestry Works
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - FORESTRY HONORS AN535X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: AN51 Natural ResourcesI
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Natural ResourcesII - Forestry, this honors-level course extendsthe standard course of study to a more challenging
level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass
the appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE)
• Aligned Industry Credential: Forestry Worker- Forestry Works
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: North Carolina FFA Association and National FFA Organization
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 39
ARCHITECTURE & CONSTRUCTION
Construction and Maintenance/Operations
CONSTRUCTION CORE IC002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Perform basic safety procedures required for construction and industrial project sites. Engage in proper techniques required to safely operate hand and power tools
used in the construction industry. Practice material handling tasks using appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) procedures and techniques. Gain the
knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCCER and the OSHA 10-Hour Construction Industry Certifications
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
CARPENTRY I IC212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC00 Construction Core
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Develop basic skills to interpret and lay out basic construction plans and documents used by carpenters. Engage in procedures for laying out and constructing floor and
wall systems. Practice essential stairway design and construction techniques. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and
construction.
Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Carpentry I
Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
CARPENTRY II HONORS IC225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC21 Carpentry I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Engage in procedures for laying out, constructing, and installing roofing components for residential and commercial buildings. Practice skills related to moisture and
insulation control concepts for building envelope systems installation. Participate in exterior finish materials installation procedures. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential–Carpentry II
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 40
CARPENTRY III HONORS IC235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC22 Carpentry II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Develop a working knowledge ofskillsrequired to read and interpret commercial drawings and specifications. Engage in proceduresfor drywall installation and finishing.
Participate in the installation of door and door hardware installation procedures. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and
construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Carpentry III
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
Electrical Trades
CONSTRUCTION CORE IC002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Perform basic safety procedures required for construction and industrial project sites. Engage in proper techniques required to safely operate hand and power tools
used in the construction industry. Practice material handling tasks using appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) procedures and techniques. Gain the
knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCCER and the OSHA 10-Hour Construction Industry Certifications
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
ELECTRICAL TRADES I HONORS IC415X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC00 Construction Core
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Develop a working knowledge of basic electrical theory, Ohm's Law, and methods for calculating electrical energy. Utilize the National Electric Code (NEC) to find
installation requirements. Engage in basic skills required for installation of electrical device boxes, conduit, and raceways systems. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Electrical TradesI
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 41
ELECTRICAL TRADES II HONORS IC425X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC41 Electrical Trades I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Develop a working knowledge ofskills required to read and interpret electrical construction drawings and specifications. Practice laying out branch circuits, sizing outlet
boxes, and wiring device installation for residential electrical systems. Develop a working knowledge of AC and DC motor theory and application. Gain the knowledge,
skills, and industry credential for careers in architecture and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Electrical TradesII
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
ELECTRICAL TRADES III HONORS IC435X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC42 Electrical TradesII
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
* For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Practice the techniques required to make conduit bends and to install pull and junction boxes. Engage in a cable pulling operation including conductor installation and
cable end preparation. Develop a working knowledge of the operation of circuit breakers, fuses, contractors, and relays used in electrical systems. Gain the knowledge,
skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Electrical TradesIII
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
Masonry
CONSTRUCTION CORE IC002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
• For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Perform basic safety procedures required for construction and industrial project sites. Engage in proper techniques required to safely operate hand and power tools
used in the construction industry. Practice material handling tasks using appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) procedures and techniques. Gain the
knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCCER and the OSHA 10-Hour Construction Industry Certifications
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
MASONRY I HONORS IC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC00 Construction Core
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
• For safety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 42
Develop basic skills to interpret measurements, drawings, and specifications common in masonry work. Engage in safely operating masonry tools and equipment.
Participate in setting up, laying out, and bonding block and brick using an appropriate mortar mixture. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers
in architecture and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Masonry I
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
●
MASONRY II HONORS IC125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC11-Masonry I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
• Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Participate in masonry construction techniques for residential and small structure foundations. Focus on the use of grout and the application of other reinforced
masonry elements. Engage in the installation of metal components and masonry openings. Gain the knowledge,skills, and industry credentialsfor careersin architecture
and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Masonry II
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
MASONRY III HONORS IC135X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC12-Masonry II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
• Forsafety reasons, the recommended enrollmentshould not exceed 20 students.
Participate in advanced masonry construction techniques and the interaction with structural components. Develop an understanding of the effects of hot and cold
weather climate conditions on masonry construction. Develop a working knowledge of quality control requirements for masonry construction. Gain the knowledge,
skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: NC NCCER Credential-Masonry III
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
Design/Pre-Construction
DRAFTING I HONORS IC615X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate essential concepts, trends, and career options in the architectural and engineering industry. Practice fundamental sketching skills and techniques required
in architectural and engineering graphic communications. Perform CAD (computer aided drafting/design) procedures required to produce basic technical drawings.
Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User AutoCAD
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 43
DRAFTING II- ARCHITECTURAL HONORS IC625X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC61 Drafting I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate commonly accepted styles, trends, trade terminology, and career options found in the architectural industry. Practice procedures to plan and draw a singlefloor residential floor plan using CAD (computer aided drafting/design). Engage in the design of foundation, roof, and floorsystem to create a complete set of residential
construction documents. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User Revit
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
DRAFTING III- ARCHITECTURAL HONORS IC635X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC62 Drafting II- Architectural
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Practice procedures to create a multi-floor residential structure using CAD (computer aided drafting/design). Engage in the design of electrical systems, stair/railing,
and advanced kitchen and bath details used in residential architectural planning. Engage in the development of a site plan for a residentialstructure. Gain the knowledge
and skills for careers in architecture and construction.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
INTERIOR DESIGNFUNDAMENTALS FI212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
 Build the knowledge and technical skills necessary to provide a foundational knowledge of the design industry. Explore design thinking and utilize the interior design
 process. Apply interior design principles and illustrate design solutions through visual communication. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in interior design
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
• Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to
exemplify the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of
scope, time, cost, and integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None - , BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving,
and application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate
with peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship:
Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 44
INTERIOR DESIGN I - FUNDAMENTALS FI212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build the knowledge and technical skills necessary to provide a foundational knowledge of the design industry. Explore design thinking and utilize the interior design
process. Apply interior design principles and illustrate design solutions through visual communication. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in interior design..
● Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship:
Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
 INTERIOR DESIGN II - STUDIO FI222X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FI21 Interior Design Fundamentals
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
 Devise an understanding of the multiple roles of an interior designer. Utilize artistic and design factors in planning, selection, and arrangement of interior spaces to meet
 the needs of families in the interior environment. Participate in creating a portfolio that includes a diverse understanding of multiple areas of design. Gain the knowledge
 and skills for careers in interior design.
● Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
INTERIOR DESIGN II - STUDIO HONORS FI225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FI21 Interior Design Fundamentals
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
This Honors course extends learning of interior design by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and application
skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing design projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with peers
and provide feedback throughout the project.
● Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes
Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
INTERIOR DESIGN II - TECHNOLOGY HONORS FI235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FI21 Interior Design Fundamentals
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Integrate interior design skills and building information modeling (BIM) using the AutoDesk Revit architecture program. Become familiar with digital drafting tools that
enable designers to create fully coordinated plans, sections, elevations, 3-D perspectives, and renderings. Utilize drafting software to create a diverse portfolio of interior
design skills. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry certification for careers in interior design.
● Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship:
Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User Revit
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 45
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I - HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in business
publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe
Visual Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work
independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course
that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
MUST PASS BOTH
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
FASHION AND TEXTILES I - FUNDAMENTALS FA072X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Discover the diverse landscape of the apparel and textile industry, with a focus on design, textiles, and apparel engineering. Explore a range of topics, including fibers and
finishes, sewing patterns and techniques, and the elements and principles of design. Construct a sewn project using knowledge learned in the course. Gain the knowledge
and skills for careers in apparel and textile production.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes,
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 46
DRAFTING I HONORS IC615X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate essential concepts, trends, and career options in the architectural and engineering industry. Practice fundamental sketching skills and techniques required in
architectural and engineering graphic communications. Perform CAD (computer aided drafting/design) procedures required to produce basic technical drawings. Gain the
knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User AutoCAD
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
ARTS, AV TECHNOLOGY, & COMMUNICATIONS
 ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I CD142X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project.
Work collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips
to create and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for career possibilities in the Adobe Video Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I HONORS CD145X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project.
Work collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips
to create and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for successful discovery and navigation of exciting career
possibilities in the Arts, A/V Technology, and Communications cluster.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 47
 ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN II CD152X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD14 Adobe Video Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Engage in the preproduction, production, and postproduction processes of video creation. Develop digital media products in the fields of audio, news-style video, and
interview-style video. Design social media products to be used on multiple platforms using cinematic storytelling elements. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the
Adobe Video Design pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN II HONORS CD155X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD14 Adobe Video Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
The Honors Video Design course in the Career and Technical Education program focuses on creating media production within five general areas: audio, news style
productions, interviewing, social media, and cinematic storytelling.. Students use technology such as prosumer high-definition video cameras, real time non-linear editing,
digital computer graphic software, and portable lighting and sound equipment to give them a full technology- based education. This course provides students with a variety
of activities that will enable them to understand and appreciate the application and value of entertainment technology by using up-to-date industry technology and
techniques. Students will advance their knowledge by applying advanced techniques related to media editing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in
business publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for
Adobe Visual Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work
independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course
that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
 MUST PASS BOTH
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I CD122X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD10 Adobe Visual Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build creative websites using techniques in Adobe Dreamweaver. Explore principles for web authoring and maintaining website content. Train to earn the industryrecognized Adobe Certified Professional Dreamweaver credential. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I HONORS CD125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD10 Adobe Visual Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe Digital Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for
the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that
successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER SCIENCE CS102X0 1 CREDIT Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore components of computation, programming, ethics, and variables in computer science. Utilize Microsoft’s MakeCode block-based coding environment and micro:bit
micro controller board to develop simple apps. Build programming skills in block-based JavaScript programming. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in the Computer
Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based
Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 48
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
● Work-Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strate
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in
business publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for
Adobe Visual Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work
independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course
that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced
. ● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
MUST PASS BOTH
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN II HONORS CD115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD10 Adobe Visual Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore elements that make an exceptional digital and print publications. Create print and digital publications in Adobe InDesign. Train to earn the industry-recognized
Adobe Certified Professional InDesign credential. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. This course builds on student design and
development skills by focusing on longer print production projects as well as more in-depth content and advanced techniques for graphics and layout development.
Students continue to produce rich print communications as they focus on effective graphic design, project management, design specifications, and iterative development.
Students develop graphic design and print production skills that solve specific communication challenges to meet client and audience needs. This course is aligned to the
Adobe Certified Associate InDesign certification, and also integrates Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator skills. English language arts are reinforced.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Print and Digital Media Publication Using Adobe InDesign
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 49
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I CD122X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build creative websites using techniques in Adobe Dreamweaver. Explore principles for web authoring and maintaining website content. Train to earn the industry
recognized Adobe Certified Professional Dreamweaver credential. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. • Work Based Learning
Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School
Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I HONORS CD125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe Digital Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully
complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
 Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I CD142X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project. Work
collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips to create
and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for career possibilities in the Adobe Video Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I HONORS CD145X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project. Work
collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips to create
and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for successful discovery and navigation of exciting career possibilities in the Arts,
A/V Technology, and Communications cluster.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment:30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 50
FASHION AND TEXTILES I - FUNDAMENTALS FA072X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Discover the diverse landscape of the apparel and textile industry, with a focus on design, textiles, and apparel engineering. Explore a range of topics, including fibers and
finishes, sewing patterns and techniques, and the elements and principles of design. Construct a sewn project using knowledge learned in the course. Gain the knowledge
and skills for careers in apparel and textile production.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
APPAREL AND TEXTILE PRODUCTION II FA322X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FA31 Apparel and Textile Production I
For safety reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Design apparel utilizing the design process. Implement advanced sewing skills to engineer an apparel product. Simulate marketing and business experience to explore the
apparel industry. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in apparel and textile production.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
APPAREL AND TEXTILE PRODUCTION II HONORS FA325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FA31 Apparel and Textile Production I
For safety reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
This Honors course extends learning of Apparel and Textile Production II by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem
solving, and application skills by using technology, engineering, and design thinking to develop a product for a client, construct a prototype, and survey their target market
to analyze and reflect on their prototype to make improvements.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in business
publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe
Visual Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work
independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course
that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
MUST PASS BOTH
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 51
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I ME112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Conceptualize starting, opening, working for, and operating a small business. Explore feasibility, design thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, and the Lean Canvas Business
Model. Investigate channel management, pricing, product/service management, and promotion. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS ME115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Entrepreneurship I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by identifying market trends, evaluating consumer needs and wants, and developing solutions to address consumer problems by proposing a new
product or service.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
FASHION MERCHANDISING MI212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Experience a comprehensive approach to the business of fashion. Engage in the economics, distribution, promotion, and retail of fashion. Prepare for entry-level fashion
employment or post-secondary education. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the fashion industry.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: None 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 52
3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I CD202X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Design 2D graphics using bitmap and vector editing applications. Record audio and video using electronic devices for editing. Build a scene in a 3D modeling
program. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the 3D Modeling and Animation pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
3D MODELING AND ANIMATION II CD212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: 3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Amplify 3D models into reality by applying real-world materials and shaders. Deliver 3D character model to life with rigging and animation techniques. Forge creative
potential with lights and cameras on a digital stage. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in the 3D Modeling and Animation pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User 3DS Max
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in business
publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe Visual
Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and
has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of
college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
MUST PASS BOTH
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 53
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN II HONORS CD115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD10 Adobe Visual Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
This course builds on student design and development skills by focusing on longer print production projects as well as more in-depth content and advanced techniques for
graphics and layout development. Students continue to produce rich print communications as they focus on effective graphic design, project management, design
specifications, and iterative development. Students develop graphic design and print production skills that solve specific communication challenges to meet client and
audience needs. This course is aligned to the Adobe Certified Associate InDesign certification, and integrates Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator skills.\English language
arts are reinforced.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Print and Digital Media Publication Using Adobe InDesign
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I CD142X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project. Work
collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips to create
and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for career possibilities in the Adobe Video Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I HONORS CD145X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the legal, technical, and editorial principles employed in the video industry necessary to understand ethical implications before engaging in a film project. Work
collaboratively to conceive, plan, and execute production plans to create audio and video assets. Use Adobe Premiere Pro features to edit audio and video clips to create
and publish a range of video products. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials necessary for successful discovery and navigation of exciting career possibilities in the
Arts, A/V Technology, and Communications cluster.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Digital Video Using Adobe Premiere Pro
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN II CD152X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD14 Adobe Video Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Engage in the preproduction, production, and postproduction processes of video creation. Develop digital media products in the fields of audio, news-style video, and
interview-style video. Design social media products to be used on multiple platforms using cinematic storytelling elements. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the
Adobe Video Design pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN II HONORS CD155X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD14 Adobe Video Design I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
The Honors Video Design course in the Career and Technical Education program focuses on creating media production within five general areas: audio, news style
productions, interviewing, social media, and cinematic storytelling.. Students use technology such as prosumer high-definition video cameras, real time non-linear editing,
digital computer graphic software, and portable lighting and sound equipment to give them a full technology- based education. This course provides students with a variety
of activities that will enable them to understand and appreciate the application and value of entertainment technology by using up-to-date industry technology and
techniques. Students will advance their knowledge by applying advanced techniques related to media editing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 54
GAME ART DESIGN CD302X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD20 3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the basics of game theory and begin a journey into the gaming industry. Develop real-world soft skills by participating in a game development team. Design a
prototype game to play with friends and family. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Game Art Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
GAME ART DESIGN HONORS CD305X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD20 3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Game Art Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully
complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADVANCED GAME ART AND DESIGN CD312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD30 Game Art and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore advanced game theory to continue the journey of the gaming industry. Level up production management skills on a real-world inspired game development
team. Create 3D game levels and more using industry standard software. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Game Art and Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I ME112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Conceptualize starting, opening, working for, and operating a small business. Explore feasibility, design thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, and the Lean Canvas Business
Model. Investigate channel management, pricing, product/service management, and promotion. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS ME115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Entrepreneurship I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by identifying market trends, evaluating consumer needs and wants, and developing solutions to address consumer problems by proposing a new product
or service.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 55
3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I CD202XO 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Design 2D graphics using bitmap and vector editing applications. Record audio and video using electronic devices for editing. Build a scene in a 3D modeling
program. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the 3D Modeling and Animation pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
GAME ART DESIGN CD302X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD20 3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the basics of game theory and begin a journey into the gaming industry. Develop real-world soft skills by participating in a game development team. Design a
prototype game to play with friends and family. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Game Art Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
GAME ART DESIGN HONORS CD305X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD20 3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Game Art Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully
complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADVANCED GAME ART AND DESIGN CD312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CD30 Game Art and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore advanced game theory to continue the journey of the gaming industry. Level up production management skills on a real-world inspired game development
team. Create 3D game levels and more using industry standard software. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Game Art and Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 56
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I CD122X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build creative websites using techniques in Adobe Dreamweaver. Explore principles for web authoring and maintaining website content. Train to earn the industry
recognized Adobe Certified Professional Dreamweaver credential. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. • Work Based Learning
Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based
Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I HONORS CD125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe Digital Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully
complete an Honors portfolio for the course that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced. • Work Based
Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes
School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Adobe Certified Professional - Web Authoring Using Adobe Dreamweaver
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing
.• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT & ADMINISTRATION
General Management

BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No Job
 Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 57
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT I BB402X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BF10 Business Essentials
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Cultivate core management concepts. Investigate how managers plan, organize, staff, and direct the business's resources that enhance the effectiveness of the decisionmaking process. Explore ethical dilemmas and real-world situations utilizing customer service, academic, and critical-thinking skills. Gain the knowledge and skills for
careers in general management.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT II BB422X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BB40 Business Management I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Nurture the appreciation and significance of management to business organizations. Investigate how managers control financial resources, inventory, ensure employee
safety, and protect customer data to enhance the effectiveness of their decision making. Investigate ethical dilemmas, practice problem solving, and build teamwork skills.
Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in business management.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
ACCOUNTING I BA102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Investigate the basic principles of the accounting cycle. Analyze business transactions and the proper recording of these records. Interpret financial statements, accounting
systems, banking and payroll activities, and basic types of business ownership. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in accounting.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Intuit Certified Bookkeeping
BUSINESS ETHICS AND LAW I BB302X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Cultivate the knowledge of basic legal and ethical principles governing the business industry and its consumers. Explore the role federal and state government plays in
criminal and civil court cases. Investigate issues that arise in the topics of business ownership, contract law, employment law, cyber law, property law, and environmental
law. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in business law.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-Based Enterprise: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 58
Business Ethics and Law

BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
* Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
BUSINESS ETHICS AND LAW I BB302X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Cultivate the knowledge of basic legal and ethical principles governing the business industry and its consumers. Explore the role federal and state government plays in
criminal and civil court cases. Investigate issues that arise in the topics of business ownership, contract law, employment law, cyber law, property law, and environmental
law. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in business law.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-Based Enterprise: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
BUSINESS ETHICS AND LAW II BB322X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BB30 Business Ethics and Law I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Analyze complex legal and ethical issues that impact today's modern business models. Explore e-commerce law, agency law, and business financial law. Investigate the
protection provided by business contracts and their importance. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in business law.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-Based Enterprise: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
ACCOUNTING I BA102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Investigate the basic principles of the accounting cycle. Analyze business transactions and the proper recording of these records. Interpret financial statements, accounting
systems, banking and payroll activities, and basic types of business ownership. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in accounting.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Intuit Certified Bookkeeping
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 59
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data,
and use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I ME112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Conceptualize starting, opening, working for, and operating a small business. Explore feasibility, design thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, and the Lean Canvas Business
Model. Investigate channel management, pricing, product/service management, and promotion. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS ME115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Entrepreneurship I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by identifying market trends, evaluating consumer needs and wants, and developing solutions to address consumer problems by proposing a new
product or service.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP II HONORS ME125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: ME11 Entrepreneurship I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Utilize business planning strategies to accelerate the implementation of a business idea. Construct plans for risk management, staffing, and promotions. Develop a business
plan complete with a SWOT analysis and action plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Entrepreneurship and Small Business (ESB)
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
* Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 60
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
Operations Management
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 61
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT II HONORS GS125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: GS11 Project Management I
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop advanced project management skills. Utilize project-based learning to understand how to use the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and
controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Explore concepts of quality management, human resources, communication management, risk management,
procurement management, and stakeholder management. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
● Work-Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: PMI Project Management Ready Certification
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
•Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
Education

 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 62
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION I HONORS FE215X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, FE60 Child Development recommended
Students must be in 10th-12th grade AND have a GPA of at least 2.5.
Required Maximum Enrollment: 20
Analyze the present-day education system with emphasis on historical background and development, aims of education, duties of the teacher, purpose and development of
curriculum, facilities, support, and control of schools. Create a foundation for understanding learners, the teaching environment, and the impact on student achievement.
Develop a vision for teaching, learning, and leading in the 21st century school. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in teaching and training.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Basic School Age Care (BSAC)
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION II HONORS FE225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FE21 Teaching as a Profession I Honors
Co-requisite: FE23 Teaching as a Profession II Field Experience Honors
Required Maximum Enrollment: 20
Develop a perspective into the teaching-learning process by exploring the role of the teacher and studying the nature of the learner in the classroom environment. Analyze
educational instructional activities and their value to the classroom while discovering the lesson planning process. Expand on the foundation for understanding learners, the
teaching environment, and the impact on student achievement. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the teaching and training.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION FIELD EXPERIENCE HONORS FE235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FE22 Teaching as a Profession II Honors
* This course can be taken at the same time as FE22 Teaching as a Profession II Honors.
Required Maximum Enrollment: 20
Integrate course knowledge into practical application while completing a hands-on field experience. Facilitate learning opportunities for students that align with NC Standard
Course of Study while assisting cooperating teachers. Develop pedagogical skills and characteristics necessary for effective teaching. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers
in teaching and training.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH I FC132X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, FE60 Child Development recommended
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop an understanding of healthy relationships on an individual's personal development. Engage in effective communication strategies for strengthening relationships.
Explore the correlation of family systems on an individual's well-being throughout one's lifespan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION I HONORS FE115X0 2 CREDITS
Prerequisite: FE60 Child Development AND students must be 15 by the 10th day of class.
For safety reasons and intern placement, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Acquire the knowledge and skills needed to provide developmentally appropriate practices in high quality early childhood education programs. Explore ways of creating a
child-centered approach to curriculum planning that includes the use of space, materials, relationships, play, and observations. Participate in practical hands-on internship
working within the early childhood classroom, learn how to meet the individual needs of children with varying abilities, and reflect on learning experiences and their impact
on children. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in early childhood development and services.
* Students are required to complete a TB screening and health questionnaire prior to interning. A criminal background check may also be required by the internship site.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CPR, First Aid, North Carolina Early Childhood Credential (NCECC)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 63
CHILD DEVELOPMENT FE602X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate the major influences on child development including culture, heredity, and environmental factors. Explore the importance of early relationships and how they
promote healthy brain development while identifying characteristics of children birth through age five. Identify the different theories of child development and their impact
on the physical, social, emotional, and cognitive domains of development in children. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in early childhood development and services.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
FINANCE
Accounting
ACCOUNTING I BA102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Investigate the basic principles of the accounting cycle. Analyze business transactions and the proper recording of these records. Interpret financial statements, accounting
systems, banking and payroll activities, and basic types of business ownership. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in accounting.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Intuit Certified Bookkeeping
ACCOUNTING II HONORS BA205X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BA10 Accounting I
Recommended for students in grades 11-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop in-depth knowledge of accounting procedures and techniques utilized in solving business problems and making managerial decisions. Explore departmental
accounting, corporate accounting, cost accounting, and inventory control systems. Amplify accounting skills to accurately complete specialized accounting procedures.
Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in accounting.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Intuit QuickBooks Certified User
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 64
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
. Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
•Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
•Aligned Industry Credential: None
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data,
and use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
Securities and Investments
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 65
FINANCIAL PLANNING I BF212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BF10 Business Essentials
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Develop techniques to enhance personal wealth building for a secure financial future. Establish key strategies for wealth building through evaluating businesses for
investment opportunities while incorporating current headlines and trends, financial resources, and stock market simulation. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in
financial planning.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
FINANCIAL PLANNING II BF222X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: BF21 Financial Planning I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop the knowledge and skills to create a business financial plan; including loans, insurance, taxes, and corporate governance. Explore the various risks and returns
associated with business activities and the impact of the global economy. Analyze ethical situations in various aspects of financial leadership in local, national, and global
business environments. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in financial planning.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MARKETING
Marketing Management

MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment:30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative
Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 66
MARKETING II MM522X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: MM51 Marketing II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Understand marketing mix strategies and the marketing model. Explore the role of marketing research, marketing data, and marketing communications. Apply
knowledge to prepare a strategic marketing plan. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative
Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Business of Retail Certified Specialist
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CD105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Build logos and vector images using features in Adobe Illustrator. Enhance photographs using features in Adobe Photoshop. Produce images to be used in business
publications and communications. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Adobe Academy pathway. In addition to the standard course requirements for Adobe
Visual Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student who is highly motivated, able to work
independently, and has a history of high academic achievement. Honors credit will be awarded to students that successfully complete an Honors portfolio for the course
that consists of college/career-themed projects and assessments. English language arts are reinforced.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: ACP Graphic Design and Illustration Using Adobe Illustrator AND ACP Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop
 MUST PASS BOTH
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
HEALTH SCIENCE
Therapeutic Services, Diagnostic Services, Health Informatics, Support Services
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 67
FOUNDATIONS OF HEALTH SCIENCE HU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore medical history from the primitive era to the 21st century. Understand mathematics used in healthcare, medical terminology, and abbreviations. Initiate learning
about healthcare professions through career exploration. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Health Science cluster.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HU402X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology isrecommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore anatomy, physiology, diseases, and disorders within human body systems. Understand structural organization of the human body as it applies to recognizing
and responding to first aid emergencies. Engage in projects, teamwork, collaboration, and demonstration to reinforce curriculum content. Gain knowledge, skills, and
industry credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HONORS HU405X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology is recommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
In addition to the standard course requirements of Health Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be extended to take and pass the
appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE II HU422X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU40 Health Science I OR HP71 PLTW Human Body Systems
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Understand the healthcare industry, including employability skills, cultural awareness, safety, and infection control procedures used by healthcare professionals.
Develop an understanding of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems to apply knowledge and skills toward earning industry recognized credentials. Demonstrate
understanding of curriculum content through projects, collaborations, and teamwork. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials for careers in the Healthcare
Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: OSHA 10-Hour Industry (Healthcare) Certification, Stop the Bleed, Basic Life Support
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE II HONORS HU425X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU40 Health Science I OR HP71 PLTW Human Body Systems
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
In addition to the standard course requirements Health Science II, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and passthe appropriate
industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: OSHA 10-HourIndustry (Healthcare) Certification, Stop the Bleed, Basic Life Support
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 68
PHARMACY TECHNICIAN HONORS HH325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU32 Health Science II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Explore the science of how medications act on biological systems and how the body responds to specific medications as it relates to the role of the pharmacy technician
in preparing prescriptions. Understand pharmacy law and regulation, product inventory, compound procedures, and medication safety. Learn the practices of billing
and reimbursement in pharmacy operations. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CPHT Certified Pharmacy Technician
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
NURSING FUNDAMENTALS AND PRACTICUM HONORS HN435X0 2 CREDITS
Prerequisite: HU42 Health Science II
*Enrollment is limited per North Carolina Board of Nursing (BON) Administrative Rule 21 NCAC 36.0318(i), which requires the ratio of teacher to HN43 Nurse Aide
students be 1:10 or less while in the clinical area. DHSR applies this 1:10 ratio to the classroom and laboratory training area. HN43 Nursing Fundamentals is total Nurse
Aide 1 training. Maximum enrollment for one teacher for one section of students is ten in HN43 Nursing Fundamentals.
Explore the role of a Nurse Aid as defined by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, and Health Care Personnel Education and Credentialing
Section. Perform nurse aide skills to care for patients and residents in a healthcare clinical setting. Build communication skills and learn to function as a healthcare team
member. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional Pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
● Job Shadowing: No Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based : No Service Learning: No
● Aligned Industry Credential: North Carolina Nurse Aide I
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I IP512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I or IP22 EMT II or IP32 Firefighter II or IP42 Law & Justice II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore fundamentals of Emergency Management operations. Develop knowledge and skills to lead all emergency resources in a public safety emergency. Perform basic
communication skills required to coordinate with all public safety agencies during an emergency. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in
emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC Emergency Management I Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH I FC132X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, FE60 Child Development recommended
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop an understanding of healthy relationships on an individual's personal development. Engage in effective communication strategies for strengthening relationships.
Explore the correlation of family systems on an individual's well-being throughout one's lifespan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH II FC142X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FC13 Counseling and Mental Health I
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Focus on the classification of mental health disorders. Inspire an understanding of mental health theories and treatments. Explore how human brain functions affect mental
health. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Pre-Professional Assessment and Certification in Family and Community Services
FOOD AND NUTRITION I FN412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Formulate an understanding of nutrition for a healthy lifestyle by preparing foods in each food group. Develop kitchen skills that promote proper food handling practice.
Plan and execute meal management. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in food and nutrition.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 69
Biotechnology Research and Development
FOUNDATIONS OF HEALTH SCIENCE HU102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore medical history from the primitive era to the 21st century. Understand mathematics used in healthcare, medical terminology, and abbreviations. Initiate learning
about healthcare professions through career exploration. Gain knowledge and skills for careers in the Health Science cluster.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HU402X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology isrecommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore anatomy, physiology, diseases, and disorders within human body systems. Understand structural organization of the human body as it applies to recognizing
and responding to first aid emergencies. Engage in projects, teamwork, collaboration, and demonstration to reinforce curriculum content. Gain knowledge, skills, and
industry credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HONORS HU405X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology isrecommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
In addition to the standard course requirements of Health Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be extended to take and pass the appropriate
industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 70
BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY HB112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU40 Health Science I or HP71 PLTW Human Body Systems
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Investigate trendsin healthcare and research to include ethics and medicine. Explore trendsin forensic medicine, infectious disease(s), and organ transplants. Examine
cell biology related to cancer and biomedical research. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Biomedical Technology pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY HONORS HB115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU40 Health Science I or HP71 PLTW Human Body Systems
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
In addition to the standard course requirements for Biomedical Technology, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level
for the student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass the
appropriate industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
BIOMEDICAL INNOVATIONS HONORS HL215X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HB11 Biomedical Technology
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
This course expands on the biomedical technology topics from Biomedical Technology I with focus on bioethics (vaccines, human experimentation, genetics), lab
techniques and biomedical equipment applications, biomanufacturing, and the impact of biotechnology on global health and medical innovation.
• Work Based LearningOpportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes Job Shadowing:
Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: OSHA 10-HourIndustry (Healthcare) Certification
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
PHARMACY TECHNICIAN HONORS HH325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: HU32 Health Science II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Explore the science of how medications act on biological systems and how the body responds to specific medications as it relates to the role of the pharmacy technician
in preparing prescriptions. Understand pharmacy law and regulation, product inventory, compound procedures, and medication safety. Learn the practices of billing
and reimbursement in pharmacy operations. Gain the knowledge, skills, and credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CPHT Certified Pharmacy Technician
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 71
HOSPITALITY & TOURISM
Restaurant and Food and Beverage Service
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY I FH102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Utilize foodservice equipment and tools in preparation of numerous types of cuisines. Practice culinary skills in baking, garde manger, and basic cooking methods. Practice
safety and sanitation to prepare for the foodservice industry. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in culinary arts and hospitality.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY II INTERNSHIP HONORS FH125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FH10 Culinary Arts and Hospitality I
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Participate in a mentored internship in the foodservice industry to apply learned cooking methods. Grow in application of skills in basic food preparation and baking.
Explore United States regional soups or global baking and pastry arts. Gain the knowledge, skills, and certifications for careers in culinary arts and hospitality.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Protection Manager
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY III HONORS FH135X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FH12 Culinary Arts and Hospitality II Internship
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Build knowledge of management and menu planning within a foodservice operation. Establish understanding of food preservation techniques, yeast bread and pastries
preparation. Learn the skills to earn a certification for advancement in the food service industry. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in culinary
arts and hospitality.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: ProStart Certificate of Achievement National Restaurant Association Education Foundation, Certified Fundamentals Cook (CFC), or PrePAC
 in Culinary Arts
FOOD AND NUTRITION I FN412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Formulate an understanding of nutrition for a healthy lifestyle by preparing foods in each food group. Develop kitchen skills that promote proper food handling practice.
Plan and execute meal management. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in food and nutrition.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 72
Recreation, Amusements and Attractions
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
SPORT AND EVENT MARKETING I MH312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore sport and event industries, associated marketing strategies, and branding concepts. Develop an understanding of promotion and marketing data related to sports
and events. Weave together the concepts to create a proposal for a unique event. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in sport and event marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
SPORT AND EVENT MARKETING II HONORS MH325X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: MH31 Sport and Event Marketing I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Utilize knowledge of promotion and marketing to create a plan for a unique event. Extrapolate marketing data to make informed communication decisions. Analyze the
financial and economic impacts of sports and events. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in sport and event marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 73
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I ME112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Conceptualize starting, opening, working for, and operating a small business. Explore feasibility, design thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, and the Lean Canvas Business
Model. Investigate channel management, pricing, product/service management, and promotion. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS ME115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Entrepreneurship I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by identifying market trends, evaluating consumer needs and wants, and developing solutions to address consumer problems by proposing a new
product or service.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
Travel and Tourism
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 74
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM MANAGEMENT I FH312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Discover the limitless possibilities in the hospitality and tourism industry. Explore this multi-faceted industry and the impact on society, environment, and
economy. Investigate ways to engage in exceptional guest service. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry certification for careers in hospitality and tourism
management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprise: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Certified Guest Service Professional (CGSP)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM MANAGEMENT II FH322X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FH31 Hospitality and Tourism Management I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Recognize career opportunities for management in the hospitality and tourism industry. Apply knowledge of the industry to develop a marketing plan for a company. Practice
financial management, sales, and leadership for this dynamic industry. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in hospitality and tourism management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprise: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Hospitality and Tourism Specialist
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
. Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY I FH102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Utilize foodservice equipment and tools in preparation of numerous types of cuisines. Practice culinary skills in baking, garde manger, and basic cooking methods. Practice
safety and sanitation to prepare for the foodservice industry. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in culinary arts and hospitality.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 75
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I ME112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Conceptualize starting, opening, working for, and operating a small business. Explore feasibility, design thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, and the Lean Canvas Business
Model. Investigate channel management, pricing, product/service management, and promotion. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in entrepreneurship.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS ME115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Entrepreneurship I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by identifying market trends, evaluating consumer needs and wants, and developing solutions to address consumer problems by proposing a new product
or service.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Venture Entrepreneurial Expedition
SPORT AND EVENT MARKETING I MH312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore sport and event industries, associated marketing strategies, and branding concepts. Develop an understanding of promotion and marketing data related to sports
and events. Weave together the concepts to create a proposal for a unique event. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in sport and event marketing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
HUMAN SERVICES
Counseling and Mental Health
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 76
CHILD DEVELOPMENT FE602X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate the major influences on child development including culture, heredity, and environmental factors. Explore the importance of early relationships and how they
promote healthy brain development while identifying characteristics of children birth through age five. Identify the different theories of child development and their impact
on the physical, social, emotional, and cognitive domains of development in children. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in early childhood development and services.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH I FC132X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, FE60 Child Development recommended
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop an understanding of healthy relationships on an individual's personal development. Engage in effective communication strategies for strengthening relationships.
Explore the correlation of family systems on an individual's well-being throughout one's lifespan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH II FC142X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FC13 Counseling and Mental Health I
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Focus on the classification of mental health disorders. Inspire an understanding of mental health theories and treatments. Explore how human brain functions affect mental
health. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Pre-Professional Assessment and Certification in Family and Community Services
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 77
Early Childhood Development and Services
CHILD DEVELOPMENT FE602X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate the major influences on child development including culture, heredity, and environmental factors. Explore the importance of early relationships and how they
promote healthy brain development while identifying characteristics of children birth through age five. Identify the different theories of child development and their impact
on the physical, social, emotional, and cognitive domains of development in children. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in early childhood development and services.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION I HONORS FE115X0 2 CREDITS
Prerequisite: FE60 Child Development AND students must be 15 by the 10th day of class.
For safety reasons and intern placement, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Acquire the knowledge and skills needed to provide developmentally appropriate practices in high quality early childhood education programs. Explore ways of creating a
child-centered approach to curriculum planning that includes the use of space, materials, relationships, play, and observations. Participate in practical hands-on internship
working within the early childhood classroom, learn how to meet the individual needs of children with varying abilities, and reflect on learning experiences and their impact
on children. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in early childhood development and services.
* Students are required to complete a TB screening and health questionnaire prior to interning. A criminal background check may also be required by the internship site.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes • Aligned Industry Credential: CPR, First Aid, North
Carolina Early Childhood Credential (NCECC)
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION II HONORS FE125X0 2 CREDITS
Prerequisite: FE11 Early Childhood Education I
For safety reasons and intern placement, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Participate in the planning, creation, and adaptation of developmentally appropriate learning environments. Focus on curriculum, teaching practices, and learning
materials through the internship experience. Teach children the importance of art and creativity. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in early childhood education
and services.
* Students are required to complete a TB screening and health questionnaire prior to interning. A criminal background check may also be required by the internship site.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 78
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH I FC132X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, FE60 Child Development recommended
Required Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop an understanding of healthy relationships on an individual's personal development. Engage in effective communication strategies for strengthening relationships.
Explore the correlation of family systems on an individual's well-being throughout one's lifespan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in counseling and mental health.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
FOOD AND NUTRITION I FN412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Formulate an understanding of nutrition for a healthy lifestyle by preparing foods in each food group. Develop kitchen skills that promote proper food handling practice.
Plan and execute meal management. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in food and nutrition.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler
FOOD AND NUTRITION II FN422X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FN41 Food and Nutrition I
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Expand knowledge of nutrient needs for a healthy lifestyle through the lifespan. Discover the impact of food systems on the environment, economy, society, and the
individual. Develop an entrepreneurial venture idea using the Lean Canvas Business Model. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential in food protection
management for careers in food and nutrition.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Protection Manager
FOOD AND NUTRITION II HONORS FN425X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FN41 Food and Nutrition I
For safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
This Honors course extends learning of food systems and the impact of nutrition on wellness by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical
thinking, problem solving, and application skills by analyzing current trends in nutrition sciences fields, exploring the relationship between food systems and communities,
and modifying recipes to meet various dietary needs. Students will communicate and collaborate with peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Protection Manager
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 79
FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY HONORS FN435X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: FN42 Food and Nutrition II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the food industry from the farm to the table using skills in food science and technology. Realize the functions of food and how it affects the food individuals eat.
Design food packaging to deploy a new food product to the market. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in food products and processing.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: Food Safety and Science Certification
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES FC112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop skills needed for personal and professional success. Integrate life literacy abilities through understanding food management, financial skills, and housing options to
achieve optimal well-being. Understand individual, family, and community systems. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in human services.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY I FH102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Note, for safety and sanitation reasons, enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Utilize foodservice equipment and tools in preparation of numerous types of cuisines. Practice culinary skills in baking, garde manger, and basic cooking methods. Practice
safety and sanitation to prepare for the foodservice industry. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in culinary arts and hospitality.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: ServSafe Food Handler
 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
AP Computer Science
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 80
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 0A027X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
AP Computer Science Principlesintroducesstudentsto the foundational concepts of the field and challengesthem to explore how computing and technology can impact
the world.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A 2A027X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
AP Computer Science A is an introductory college-level computerscience course. Students cultivate their understanding of coding through analyzing, writing, and testing
code as they explore concepts like modularity, variables, and control structures.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CI002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop or PC and secure a basic wireless network. Manage applications software while understanding the various
components of an operating system. Interpret programming language categories and interpret the logic and purpose of programming. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Comp TIA IT Fundamentals + (ITF+)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
INTRODUCTION TOCOMPUTER SCIENCE CS102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore components of computation, programming, ethics, and variables in computer science. Utilize Microsoft’s MakeCode block-based coding environment and
micro:bit micro controller board to develop simple apps. Build programming skills in block-based JavaScript programming. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in
the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Internship Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 81
Programming and Software Development
COMPUTER SCIENCE I CS202X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore how data is stored, transmitted, and used by computers. Investigate the benefits and harms of quickly advancing technology on society. Produce unique and
interactive computer programs. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science Principles pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 0A027X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
AP Computer Science Principles introduces students to the foundational concepts of the field and challenges them to explore how computing and technology can impact
the world.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 82
COMPUTER SCIENCE II CS212X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite CS20 Computer Science I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Code programsthat use advanced creativity and large data sets. Create computer programsthat make use of advanced algorithms and procedures. Explore the impacts
of computers on a global scale. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science Principles pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A 2A027X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
AP Computer Science A is an introductory college-level computerscience course. Students cultivate their understanding of coding through analyzing, writing, and testing
code as they explore concepts like modularity, variables, and control structures.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job
Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheetsin Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CI002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop or PC and secure a basic wireless network. Manage applications software while understanding the various
components of an operating system. Interpret programming language categories and interpret the logic and purpose of programming. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Comp TIA IT Fundamentals + (ITF+)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER SCIENCE CS102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore components of computation, programming, ethics, and variables in computer science. Utilize Microsoft’s MakeCode block-based coding environment and micro:bit
micro controller board to develop simple apps. Build programming skills in block-based JavaScript programming. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in the Computer
Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes
 School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 83
PYTHON PROGRAMMING I CP102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Craft basic programs utilizing Python programming language. Execute functions, loops, operations, and data sets in various programs. Design programs with considerations
for ethics, security, and how to implement the problem-solving process throughout the coding process. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Python Programming
pathway.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: PCEP - Certified Entry-level Python Programmer
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
PYTHON PROGRAMMING I HONORS CP105X0 1CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Craft basic programs utilizing Python programming language. Execute functions, loops, operations, and data sets in various programs. Design programs with considerations
for ethics, security, and how to implement the problem-solving process throughout the coding process. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Python Programming
pathway. In addition, students will complete a comprehensive honors project that integrates all learned objectives, extends the standards (noted in the blueprint), and
aligns with the state proof of learning for the course, the PCEP – Certified Entry-Level Python Programming credential.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: PCEP - Certified Entry-level Python Programmer
● Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
PYTHON PROGRAMMING II HONORS CP115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CP10 Python Programming I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Design, write, debug, and run programs encoded in the Python language. Formulate program using Internet of Things (IoT) programs. Develop stories utilizing data sets,
visualizations, and Python programming. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Python Programming pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: PCAP Certified Associate in Python Programming
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 84
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A 2A027X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
AP Computer Science A is an introductory college-level computer science course. Students cultivate their understanding of coding through analyzing, writing, and testing
code as they explore concepts like modularity, variables, and control structures.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes, Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data, and
use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CI002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop or PC and secure a basic wireless network. Manage applications software while understanding the various
components of an operating system. Interpret programming language categories and interpret the logic and purpose of programming. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Comp TIA IT Fundamentals + (ITF+)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER SCIENCE CS102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore components of computation, programming, ethics, and variables in computer science. Utilize Microsoft’s MakeCode block-based coding environment and micro:bit
micro controller board to develop simple apps. Build programming skills in block-based JavaScript programming. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in the Computer
Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes
 School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 85
INTRODUCTION TO DATA SCIENCE CS302X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore introductory concepts to data science, such as data organization and data visualization. Build data analysis and data visualizations using various data science tools.
Compose data structures and apply database relationships to help solve deep-level data questions. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in the Data Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
SAS BASE PROGRAMMING HONORS CS315X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CS30 Introduction to Data Science
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Build SAS programs to solve common data analysis problems. Illustrate data using custom formats and tables. Synthesize data to help develop a story with data. Gain the
knowledge and skills for careers in the Data Science pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: SAS Certified Specialist: Programming Fundamentals Using SAS 9.4
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
AP STATISTICS 2 A037X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Learn about the major concepts and tools used for collecting, analyzing, and drawing conclusions from data. Explore statistics through discussion and activities, and design
surveys and experiments.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CC115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel using fundamentals, formulas, and functions. Illustrate data with tables and graphs. Manage workbooks, manipulate data,
and use simple macros. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Computer Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Expert
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CI002X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop or PC and secure a basic wireless network. Manage applications software while understanding the various
components of an operating system. Interpret programming language categories and interpret the logic and purpose of programming. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Comp TIA IT Fundamentals + (ITF+)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER SCIENCE CS102X0 1 CREDIT Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore components of computation, programming, ethics, and variables in computer science. Utilize Microsoft’s MakeCode block-based coding environment and micro:bit
micro controller board to develop simple apps. Build programming skills in block-based JavaScript programming. Gain the skills and knowledge for careers in the Computer
Science, IT, and Technology pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: Yes
 Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 86
Information and Support Services
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CI002XO 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop or PC and secure a basic wireless network. Manage applications software while understanding the various
components of an operating system. Interpret programming language categories and interpret the logic and purpose of programming. Gain the knowledge, skills, and
industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Comp TIA IT Fundamentals + (ITF+)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY I HONORS CI015XO 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CI00 Comp TIA IT Fundamentals
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Install and configure laptops and other mobile devices. Support and troubleshoot Windows OS, Mac OX, and Linux OS environments. Troubleshoot real-world device and
network issues. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CompTIA A+ (Core 1)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA)
COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY II HONORS CI025XO 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CI01 Computer Engineering Technology I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Troubleshoot PC and mobile devices issues including common OS, malware, and security issues. Identify and protect against security vulnerabilities for devices and their
network connections. Perform critical IT support tasks. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credential for careers in the Computer Engineering pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: CompTIA A+ (Core 2)
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), SkillsUSA, Technology Student Association (TSA) 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 87
LAW, PUBLIC SAFETY, CORRECTIONS & SECURITY
Emergency Management
PUBLIC SAFETY I IP112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a basic understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform basic skills with these different careers, including firefighting, EMT, and law
enforcement. Create a student personal plan for a career in public safety. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: National Incident Management System, Law and Public Safety Introductory Competency
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I IP512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I or IP22 EMT II or IP32 Firefighter II or IP42 Law & Justice II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore fundamentals of Emergency Management operations. Develop knowledge and skills to lead all emergency resources in a public safety emergency. Perform basic
communication skills required to coordinate with all public safety agencies during an emergency. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in
emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC Emergency Management I Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT II HONORS IP525X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP51 Emergency Management I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop knowledge and skills used in an Emergency Management Operation Center. Develop rapid needs assessments, including weather-related data used in hazard
mitigation of Emergency Management operations. Perform advanced communication skills required to lead other professionals in public safety during an emergency.
Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 88
HEALTH SCIENCE I HU402X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology is recommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore anatomy, physiology, diseases, and disorders within human body systems. Understand structural organization of the human body as it applies to recognizing and
responding to first aid emergencies. Engage in projects, teamwork, collaboration, and demonstration to reinforce curriculum content. Gain knowledge, skills, and industry
credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HONORS HU405X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology is recommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
In addition to the standard course requirements of Health Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student
who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be extended to take and pass the appropriate industry
certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
•
Emergency Medical Technology
PUBLIC SAFETY I IP112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a basic understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform basic skills with these different careers, including firefighting, EMT, and law
enforcement. Create a student personal plan for a career in public safety. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: National Incident Management System, Law and Public Safety Introductory Competency
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY I HONORS IP215X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*Due to safety requirements as specified in the approved NCOEMS NCDPI educational plan, this course is limited to 20 students per teacher.
Discover how to provide medical care for patients of all ages in the pre-hospital environment. Learn emergency medical systems and the roles and responsibilities of the
emergency medical responder in the pre-hospital setting. Establish an introductory understanding of anatomy and physiology related to medical and traumatic
emergencies. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Emergency Medical Technology pathway. Per the NCEOMS candidate handbook and
education program requirements, students must be 17 years of age on or before the official end date of the course. This course is an inherently honors course.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 89
• Aligned Industry Credential: Emergency Medical Responder (EMR), Basic Life Support, National Incident Management System (NIMS); Stop the Bleed
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY II HONORS IP225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP21 Emergency Management I and English III
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 16
Note: Due to safety requirements as specified in the approved NCOEMS NCDPI educational plan, this course is limited to 16 students per teacher.
Discover how to provide medical care for patients of all ages in the pre-hospital environment. Learn emergency medical systems, relevant skills, roles, and responsibilities
of the emergency medical technician in the prehospital setting. Understand anatomy and physiology related to medical and traumatic emergencies. Gain the knowledge,
skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Emergency Medical Technology pathway. Per the NCOEMS candidate handbook and education program requirements,
students must be 17 years of age on or before the official end date of the course.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: Emergency Medical Technician Basic
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I IP512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I or IP22 EMT II or IP32 Firefighter II or IP42 Law & Justice II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore fundamentals of Emergency Management operations. Develop knowledge and skills to lead all emergency resources in a public safety emergency. Perform basic
communication skills required to coordinate with all public safety agencies during an emergency. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in
emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC Emergency Management I Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
HEALTH SCIENCE I HU402X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology is recommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore anatomy, physiology, diseases, and disorders within human body systems. Understand structural organization of the human body as it applies to recognizing and
responding to first aid emergencies. Engage in projects, teamwork, collaboration, and demonstration to reinforce curriculum content. Gain knowledge, skills, and industry
credentials for careers in the Healthcare Professional pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
HEALTH SCIENCE I HONORS HU405X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Biology is recommended as preparation for this course.
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
In addition to the standard course requirements of Health Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student
who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be extended to take and pass the appropriate industry
certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: No
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: First Aid
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: HOSA-Future Health Professionals
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 90
Firefighter Technology
PUBLIC SAFETY I IP112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a basic understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform basic skills with these different careers, including firefighting, EMT, and law
enforcement. Create a student personal plan for a career in public safety. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: National Incident Management System, Law and Public Safety Introductory Competency
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY I IP312X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Gather basic knowledge and skills required in firefighting. Develop skills in communications, use of personal protective equipment, forcible entry, fire extinguishers, and
building construction. Perform basic firefighter skills associated with the knowledge obtained in this course. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for
careers in firefighter technology.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCOSFM Credential - Firefighter Technology I
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY II IP322X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP31 Firefighter Technology I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Enhance knowledge and skills required in firefighting. Develop skills in ladders, ventilation, ropes and knots, water supplies, hoses, appliances for search and rescue, and
emergency medical care operations. Perform intermediate firefighter skills associated with the knowledge obtained in this course. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry
credentials for careers in firefighter technology.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship : Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCOSFM Credential - Firefighter Technology II
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 91
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY III HONORS IP335X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP32 Fire Fighter Technology II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Maximize knowledge and skills required in firefighting. Develop tasks related to skills used in rescue, fire protection, fire and life safety, mayday, HAZMAT, and traffic
incident management. Perform advanced firefighter skills associated with the knowledge obtained in this course. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for
careers in firefighter technology.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NCOSFM Credential - Firefighter Technology III
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I IP512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I or IP22 EMT II or IP32 Firefighter II or IP42 Law & Justice II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore fundamentals of Emergency Management operations. Develop knowledge and skills to lead all emergency resources in a public safety emergency. Perform basic
communication skills required to coordinate with all public safety agencies during an emergency. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in
emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC Emergency Management I Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
Public Safety
PUBLIC SAFETY I IP112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a basic understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform basic skills with these different careers, including firefighting, EMT, and law
enforcement. Create a student personal plan for a career in public safety. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: National Incident Management System, Law and Public Safety Introductory Competency
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
PUBLIC SAFETY II HONORS IP125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a deeper understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform skills associated with being part of a community emergency response team.
Prepare for a career in 9-1-1 telecommunications through demonstrated activities. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: No Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Community Emergency Response Team (CERT); National Basic 9-1-1 Dispatch Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 92
Corrections Services, Law Enforcement Services, Legal Services, Security and Protection Services
PUBLIC SAFETY I IP112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop a basic understanding of careers and skills in the public safety pathway. Perform basic skills with these different careers, including firefighting, EMT, and law
enforcement. Create a student personal plan for a career in public safety. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in public safety.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: National Incident Management System, Law and Public Safety Introductory Competency
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
LAW AND JUSTICE, I IP412X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Develop an understanding of the history of law enforcement, including the criminal justice system. Understand the responsibilities of policing, and the classification of
crimes. Practice basic skills such as communication with diverse groups, conflict resolution, operation of equipment, and courtroom testimony. Gain the knowledge, skills,
and industry credentials for careers in law and justice.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
LAW AND JUSTICE II HONORS IP425X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP41 Law and Justice I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Gather knowledge and skills required in private security protection. Practice communication skills required of protection officers. Perform tasks including crime
prevention, risk and threat management, and physical security. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in law and justice.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship: Yes Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Certified Protection Officer
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I IP512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IP11 Public Safety I or IP22 EMT II or IP32 Firefighter II or IP42 Law & Justice II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore fundamentals of Emergency Management operations. Develop knowledge and skills to lead all emergency resources in a public safety emergency. Perform basic
communication skills required to coordinate with all public safety agencies during an emergency. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in
emergency management.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: NC Emergency Management I Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 93
MANUFACTURING
Manufacturing Production Process Development
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING I HONORS IM115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 15
Prepare for an entry-level production worker in the manufacturing environment. Develop basic manufacturing skills in safety and maintenance. Engage in group activities
utilized in manufacturing, including the use of personal protective equipment. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in advanced manufacturing.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: MSSC: Certified Production Technician- Safety MSSC: Certified Production Technician- Quality OSHA 10-Hour General Industry (Agriculture)
Certification
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING II HONORS IM125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IM11 Advanced Manufacturing I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 15
Develop procedures that can be used in manufacturing to produce products in a safe and productive environment. Develop basic skills in statistical process controls use
in the manufacturing environment. Engage in teams to better understand the manufacturing process. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials in advanced
manufacturing.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship : Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: MSSC: Certified Production Technician- Safety MSSC: Certified Production Technician- Quality OSHA 10-Hour General Industry
(Agriculture) Certification
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 94
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
STEM
Engineering and Technology
DRAFTING I HONORS IC615X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate essential concepts, trends, and career options in the architectural and engineering industry. Practice fundamental sketching skills and techniques required in
architectural and engineering graphic communications. Perform CAD (computer aided drafting/design) procedures required to produce basic technical drawings. Gain the
knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in architecture and construction.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User AutoCAD
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: SkillsUSA
DRAFTING II – ENGINEERING HONORS IV225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IC61 Drafting I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate design concepts, principles, trade terminology, and career options found in the engineering industry. Practice techniques to create 3D-solid modeled parts
and working drawings using CAD (computer aided drafting/design). Practice conventional dimensioning and tolerancing techniques used in engineering design and
production. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship: Yes Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: Autodesk Certified User Inventor or Certified SolidWorks Associate (CSWA)
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 95
DRAFTING III - ENGINEERING HONORS IV235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IV22 Drafting II- Engineering
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Investigate education and professional requirements for engineering and manufacturing employment. Practice advanced techniques to create parametric 3D-solid
modeled parts, assemblies, and working drawings using CAD (computer aided drafting/design). Engage in procedures of geometric dimensioning and tolerancing
techniques used in engineering design and production. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship : Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
Technology Engineering and Design
TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING AND DESIGN CT102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore how technology evolved throughout human history. Discover the universal systems model in products and processes society uses every day. Build a scale model of a
structure by applying the Engineering Design Process. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Technology Engineering and Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 96
TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING AND DESIGN HONORS CT105X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements of Health Science I, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the student
who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be extended to take and pass the appropriate industry
certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-Apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)
TECHNOLOGICAL DESIGN CT112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CT10 Technology Engineering and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore engineering through energy, manufacturing, and other industries. Fabricate prototypes to test design concepts. Engineer a solution to a problem in a community.
Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Technology Engineering and Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips:Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School -based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)
TECHNOLOGICAL DESIGN HONORS CT115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CT10 Technology Engineering and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Technological Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass the appropriate
industry certification exam associated with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School -based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)
ENGINEERING DESIGN CT122X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CT10 Technology Engineering and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
Explore the elements of design as a team to analyze factors that lead to design improvements. Establish constraints from outside factors within designs. Engineering a
solution for a problem within one of the grand challenges of engineering. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the Technology, Engineering, and Design pathway.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship Yes School -based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)

ENGINEERING DESIGN HONORS CT125X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: CT10 Technology Engineering and Design
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 25
In addition to the standard course requirements for Engineering Design, this honors-level course extends the standard course of study to a more challenging level for the
student who is highly motivated, able to work independently and has a history of high academic achievement. Students will be expected to take and pass the appropriate
industry certification exam with the course, if available.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship Yes School -based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Technology Student Association (TSA)
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 97
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
MARKETING I MM512X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Implement dynamic marketing processes and activities. Develop an understanding of marketing functions and their impact on business operations. Conceptualize a
comprehensive marketing plan. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in marketing.
● Work-Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: CIW Social Media Strategist
TRANSPORTATION, DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS
Facility and Mobile Equipment Maintenance
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES FUNDAMENTALS IT112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*For safety reasons, the recommended enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Prepare for an entry-level position in the Automotive Service industry. Develop basic skills in shop safety, shop equipment, and hand tool usage. Engage in identifying
vehicle systems, system components, and various vehicle fluids. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Automotive Services pathway. All
secondary automotive programs are required to be ASE Accredited.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: S/P2- Mechanical Safety, SP2- Mechanical-Pollution Prevention
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: SkillsUSA
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE I IT162X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IT11 Automotive Service Fundamentals
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*For safety reasons, the recommended enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Develop skills and knowledge needed to service modern vehicles. Perform basic brake inspection and service. Explore Ohm's law in the basic electrical service applied to
vehicles. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Automotive Service pathway. All secondary automotive programs are required to be ASE
accredited.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 98
Job Shadowing: Yes Pre-apprenticeships Yes Mentorships: Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Skills USA
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE II HONORS IT175X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IT16 Automotive Service I
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*For safety reasons, the recommended enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Perform basic suspension and steering inspections and service. Research vehicle information, service bulletins, and recalls on vehicles being services. Gather information
on vehicle codes and module data used to diagnose vehicle systems. Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Automotive Services pathway.
All secondary automotive programs are required to be ASE accredited.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: ASE Student Certification-Maintenance and Light Repair; ASE Entry Level Certification - Brakes
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Skills USA
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE III HONORS IT185X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: IT17 Automotive Service II
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
*For safety reasons, the recommended enrollment should not exceed 20 students.
Explore more advanced and in-depth vehicle repairs and services. Perform basic system diagnosis. Expand knowledge in heating and air conditioning system operations.
Gain the knowledge, skills, and industry credentials for careers in the Automotive Services pathway. All secondary automotive programs are required to be ASE
accredited.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: Yes Internship: Yes
Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes Pre-apprenticeship Yes School-based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: ASE Auto Maintenance and Light Repair Certification (Test G1) : ASE Entry-Level Certification - Electrical/Electronic Systems
• Aligned Career Technical Student Organization: Skills USA
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I GS112X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore the principles, concepts, and software applications used in the management of projects from conception to completion. Utilize project-based learning to exemplify
the framework of initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing a project in authentic situations. Analyze the core concepts of scope, time, cost, and
integration. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers across multiple pathways.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS GS115X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None, BF10 Business Essentials recommended
Recommended for students in grades 10-12
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
This Honors course extends learning of Project Management I by providing opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate critical thinking, problem solving, and
application skills by selecting, investigating, and presenting on real-world problems associated with managing projects. Students will communicate and collaborate with
peers and provide feedback throughout the project.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: Yes Entrepreneurial: Yes Internship: Yes
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS BF102X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 30
Explore realistic business principles by examining the business environment and primary business activities. Conceptualize ethics, customer relations, and human resource
management through workplace scenarios. Investigate the usage of financial analysis, economics, information management, marketing, operations, and technology in the
business world of the 21st century. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in multiple business pathways.
● Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: Yes Cooperative Education: No Entrepreneurial: No Internship: No
 Job Shadowing: Yes Mentorships: Yes School Based Enterprises: Yes Service Learning: Yes
● Aligned Industry Credential: None 
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 99
Supplemental Courses
CTE INTERNSHIP REQUEST SPECIFIC CAREER PATHWAY CODE
CTE INTERNSHIP HONORS REQUEST SPECIFIC CAREER PATHWAY CODE
1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: None
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Prepare for postsecondary education and future careers through observation and participation in the daily operations of a career in a general career field. Experience realworld application of job tasks acquired by utilizing durable employability skills in an authentic workforce activity. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the pathway
of choice.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: No Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: No Internship: Yes Job Shadowing: No
 Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: An association for Marketing Education students (DECA), Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), North Carolina FFA Association
and National FFA Organization (FFA), Family, Career and Community Leaders of America (FCCLA), Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA), SkillsUSA, and
Technology Student Assoc. (TSA)
CTE ACADEMY INTERNSHIP (Career Academy Students Only) REQUEST SPECIFIC CAREER PATHWAY CODE
CTE ACADEMY INTERNSHIP HONORS (Career Academy Students Only) REQUEST SPECIFIC CAREER PATHWAY CODE
CTE APPRENTICESHIP REQUEST SPECIFIC CAREER PATHWAY CODE
1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: Two technical credits in one Career Cluster
Recommended Maximum Enrollment: 20
Perform the job duties and related education required as an employed apprentice in a career field registered by ApprenticeshipNC. Experience real-world application of
technical skills, employability skills, and related education in an authentic workforce environment. Evaluate and plan for a postsecondary career in the career cluster/pathway
culminating in a State Certificate and a National Journeyworker Certificate issued by the USDOL. Gain the knowledge and skills for careers in the pathway of choice.
• Work Based Learning Opportunities: Apprenticeship: Yes Business and Industry Field Trips: No Cooperative Education: No Internship: No Job Shadowing: No
Mentorships: No School Based Enterprises: No Service Learning: No
• Aligned Industry Credential: None
• Aligned CTE Student Organization: An association for Marketing Education students (DECA), Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), North Carolina FFA
Association and National FFA Organization (FFA), Family, Career and Community Leaders of America (FCCLA), Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA),
SkillsUSA, and Technology Student Assoc. (TSA)
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 100
English Language Arts Courses
Previous performance in English Language Arts courses and teacher recommendation should be considered in course selection.
CHOICES FOR REQUIRED ENGLISH COURSES
ENGLISH I 10212X0 1 CREDIT
This academic course is designed for the student who aspires to post-secondary college or career experience. A survey of literary types, this course focuses on reading,
writing, speaking and listening, and language. Students should expect homework assignments and/or compositions that reinforce classroom instruction. Writing
instruction at this level focuses on mechanical correctness, fluency, and structure. The student is expected to function at grade level in communication and thinking
skills.
ENGLISH I HONORS 10215X0 1 CREDIT
This honors course is designed to challenge students. It concentrates on developing reading, writing, and critical thinking skills through an intensive survey of literary
types and appropriate oral and written responses. The course provides a review of grammar, mechanics, vocabulary, and usage as needed. This college preparatory
course focuses on the development of complex thought processes, independence in learning, and creative expression through discussion and frequent writing
assignments. Homework is a reinforcement and extension of classroom instruction.
ENGLISH II 10222X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English I
This academic world literature course is designed for the student who aspires to post-secondary college or career experience. This class focuses on reading, writing,
speaking and listening, and language. Students should expect homework assignments and/or compositions that reinforce classroom instruction. Writing instruction at
this level focuses on mechanical correctness, fluency, and structure. The student is expected to function at grade level in communication and thinking skills.
ENGLISH II HONORS 10225X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English I
This honors course is designed to challenge students. This course concentrates on developing reading, writing, and critical thinking skills through an intensive study of
a variety of selected world literature and appropriate oral and written responses. The course provides a review of grammar, mechanics, vocabulary, and usage as
needed. This college preparatory course focuses on the development of complex thought processes, independence in learning, and creative expression through
discussion and frequent writing assignments. Homework is a reinforcement and extension of classroom instruction.
ENGLISH III 10232X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English II
This academic American literature course is designed for the student who aspires to post-secondary college or vocational experience. The course addresses reading,
writing, speaking and listening, and language. Students should expect homework assignments and/or compositions that reinforce classroom instruction. Writing
instruction at this level focuses on mechanical correctness, fluency, and structure. The student is expected to function at grade level in communication and thinking
skills.
ENGLISH III HONORS 10235X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English II
This honors course is designed to challenge students. This course concentrates on developing reading, writing, and critical thinking skills through an intensive study of
selected American literature and appropriate oral and written responses. The course provides a review of grammar, mechanics, vocabulary, and usage as needed. This
college preparatory course focuses on the development of complex thought processes, independence in learning, and creative expression through discussion and
frequent writing assignments. Homework is a reinforcement and extension of classroom instruction.
AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMPOSITION 1A007X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English II, honors-level recommended
This college-level course provides an analytical and historical study of American literature and language as well as other literature in a comprehensive program of
reading, writing, and critical thinking. It fulfillsthe NC graduation requirement for English III. As preparation to take the AP Exam in Language and Composition, students
read, discuss, analyze, and write about challenging works of recognized literary merit to develop honest, concise, and effective use of language and the ability to
organize ideasin a clear, coherent, and persuasive way. Independent literary analysis and a total mastery of writing skills are the goals of the course. Because this course
meetsthe needs of academically gifted or highly motivated advanced students who hope to bypass introductory courses in composition and literature when they enter
college, studentsin an AP course should expect assignments and instruction paced at the college level. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take The College
Board AP Exam.
ENGLISH IV 10242X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English III
This academic British literature course is designed for the student who aspires to post-secondary college or career experience. The course addresses reading, writing,
speaking and listening, and language. Students should expect homework assignments and/or compositions that reinforce classroom instruction. Writing instruction at
this level focuses on mechanical correctness, fluency, and structure. The student is expected to function at grade level in communication and thinking skills.
ENGLISH IV HONORS 10245X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English III
This honors course is designed to challenge students. This course concentrates on developing reading, writing, and critical thinking skills through an intensive study of
selected British literature and appropriate oral and written responses. The course provides a review of grammar, mechanics, vocabulary, and usage as needed. This
college preparatory course focuses on the development of complex thought processes, independence in learning, and creative expression through discussion and
frequent writing assignments. Homework is a reinforcement and extension of classroom instruction.
AP ENGLISH LITERATURE AND COMPOSITION 1A017X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: English III, honors-level recommended
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 101
This college-level course provides an analytical and historical study of British and world literature in a comprehensive program of reading, writing, and critical thinking.
It fulfills the NC graduation requirement for English III. As preparation to take the AP Exam in Literature and Composition, students read, discuss, analyze, and write
about challenging works of recognized literary merit to develop honest, concise, and effective use of language and the ability to organize ideas in a clear, coherent, and
persuasive way. Independent literary analysis and a total mastery of writing skills are the goals of the course. Because this course meets the needs of academically
gifted or highly motivated advanced students who hope to bypass introductory courses in composition and literature when they enter college, studentsin an AP course
should expect assignments and instruction paced at the college level. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take The College Board AP Exam.
ENGLISH ELECTIVE COURSES
ADVANCED FORENSICS HONORS 10185X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Speech I and II
This third level of speech and debate invites students to specialize in one or more events sponsored by the National Forensics League even as they deepen their
exposure, knowledge, and experience in all of the main events. Thus, the course work maintains a tight balance between independently driven projects and whole class
activities, with the highest expectations for careful preparation, deep and purposeful research, and polished performance. Students will be encouraged to participate
in competitive events through the National Forensics League.
ADVANCED RESEARCH AND FORENSICS HONORS 10185X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite: Advanced Forensics Honors
This fourth level of speech and debate offers a depth of expertise in the historical and philosophical foundations of the subject, as students study moral philosophy to
foster their mastery of debate and aesthetic performance theories to further their success in speech and theater. In addition to participating in class in all speech and
debate events sponsored by the National Forensics League, students enrolled in this course will develop independent research projects to share with beginning and
intermediate students, solidifying their roles as leaders in the field. Students will be encouraged to participate in competitive events through the National Forensics
League.
AFRICANAMERICANLITERATURE 10252X0A 1 CREDIT
This course explores African American writing and its relationship to American history and culture. Students study critical theories of African American literature and
the contexts of cultural criticism through selected works by African American writers.
AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE HONORS 10255X0J 1 CREDIT
This literature-based course is intended for those students interested in a deep and extended exploration of African American writing and its relationship to American
history and culture. Students can expect to study a survey of the African American experience, from colonial voices through urban fiction, poetry, and music lyrics. A
deep study of critical theories and their application to African American literature uses a variety of African American sources as text for this course.
ARGUMENT THEORY AND PRACTICE HONORS 10185X0D 1 CREDIT
This honors-level course is designed to challenge students to examine argumentation closely and critically. Students will think globally about the history and theories
of argument, use critical analysis as they apply new learning to complex texts and consider the elements of argument theory while crafting original writing.
CREATIVE WRITING I 10252X0D 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for the student interested in writing original poetry, plays, essays, and short stories. Students consider the elements of creativity - inspiration,
form, and content - in relation to styles of representative authors. Self-criticism, group evaluation, contest entries, and publication of students' work are required
activities. Projects may include entertainment of a poet-in-residence and publication of a literary magazine.
CREATIVE WRITING I HONORS 10255X0D 1 CREDIT
In this course, students willstudy the elements of creative expression and production through mentor texts and original poetry, shortstory, memoir, drama, and essays.
Students will use a writer's workshop course structure of self- and peer- evaluation and multiple revisions to produce publishable works of literature. Students will be
expected to develop an extended project of work over time, responding to feedback and revising for a specific audience, such as a school literary magazine.
CREATIVE WRITING II 10252X0H 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Creative Writing I
In this course students will research, create, read, and study a specific genre and the movements within that genre over the past 100 years. They create manuscripts
for presentation to various outlets for publication and may be expected to participate in the publication of a school literary magazine.
CREATIVE WRITING II HONORS 10255X0K 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Creative Writing I
This course is designed for students interested in exploring the Creative Writing II curriculum at a more intensive and extensive level. Students taking this course for
Honors credit must write extended and polished responses to course assignments, participate in peer review panels, and submit manuscripts for publication. They may
also be expected to participate in the local publication of a school literary magazine.
CULTURAL MEDIA LITERACY 10252X0E 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for the student to study forms of media that entertain, inform, and shape our society including television, movies, video games, music,
advertisements, news media, the Internet, and literature. Students will study media from a historical perspective and analyze media so that they will be informed
consumers and citizens able to make decisionsin our democratic society. Through individual and group projects, students will examine the relationship between culture
and media.
CULTURAL MEDIA LITERACY HONORS 10255X0E 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for the student to study forms of media that entertain, inform, and shape our society including television, movies, video games, music,
advertisements, new media, the Internet, and literature. In addition to analyzing the role of media in shaping culture through a historical perspective, students can
expect to design and develop their own research on modern media and its global effect on culture.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 102
THE HUMAN EXPERIENCE HONORS 10255X0B 1 CREDIT
Thisliterature-based course isintended for those studentsinterested in exploring different aspects of the human experience. Divided into five units, the course explores
how, through literature, we approach and define our understanding of what it means to be human. By exploring how literature and other forms of writing approach
art, history, philosophy, and religion, students will gain a better understanding of the human experience.
INTEGRATED READING 10252X0F 1 CREDIT
Co-requisite: English I
This course is to be taught as an integrated year-long course with English I and is designed for students who benefit from instruction in phonemic awareness, decoding,
fluency, spelling, vocabulary, and comprehension. Students receive targeted instruction in reading at the same time they are taking English I in order to support their
literacy growth in the context of opportunities to develop reading, writing, speaking, and viewing skills.
INTRODUCTION TOCOMMUNICATIONS AND MASS MEDIA 10312X0B 1 CREDIT
This introductory course is designed for students interested in pursuing additional coursework in journalism, media, and communications. Students examine the basics
of writing, design, and production as well as current industry issues.
LEADERSHIP IN MEDIA I HONORS 10255X0C 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Newspaper I/II (H); or Yearbook I/II (H); or Creative Writing I/II (H)
This honors-level course provides advanced students with the environment to obtain leadership skills. Students successfully completing this course will be responsible
for coaching and mentoring peers, setting and managing deadlines, leading instruction, having a cogent awareness of current trends within the medium, and producing
a collaborative product that serves the school and community. This course is designed for students who have committed to leadership positions for school-wide
publications, such as the school newspaper, yearbook, or literary magazine.
LEADERSHIP IN MEDIA II HONORS 10255X0M 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Leadership in Media I HONORS
In addition to the leadership skillsrequired in Leadership in Media I, studentsin this honors course act in a supervisory role for not only their peers but also for emerging
leaders within their staff, conducting meetings, fostering creativity and productivity, and establishing a collaborative and communicative environment. Students will
also be required to study a book independently on leadership. This course is designed for students who are committing to a second year of leadership for school-wide
publications, such as the school newspaper, yearbook, or literary magazine.
NEWSPAPER I 10312X0G 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Application and teacher recommendation
This introductory newspaper course is designed for students interested in the construction and publication of regular editions of the school newspaper. Focus areas
are learning the skills of newspaper writing and the responsibilities of newspaper business management.
NEWSPAPER II 10322X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Newspaper I, application, and teacher recommendation
This second-level newspaper course is designed to help students refine their skills in interviewing and reporting. Students design and publish regular editions of the
school newspaper. They also deepen their understanding of the business management aspect of the newspaper.
NEWSPAPER II HONORS 10325X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Newspaper I, application, and teacher recommendation
This honors course allows junior- and senior-level publication staff membersto develop advanced journalistic skillsin addition to leadership skills. Students enrolled for
honors credit are required to fill an editor's position or take a leadership role on the publication staff. They participate in the construction and publication of the school
newspaper and master additional editorial and technological skills. Editorial skills include planning an entire issue, copy editing, and completing portfolios of their work.
The technological skills include mastering advanced layout and design of desktop publishing and mastering digital imagery and photo placement. Students may receive
honors credit in Newspaper II Honors one time only.
NEWSPAPER III 10332X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Newspaper I and II and teacher recommendation
Students who have completed Newspaper I and II and who desire to refine skills in writing, editing, imaging, finance, and printing may elect this course. In addition to
the development of higher-level writing skills and business management procedures, students enhance their knowledge of the laws and ethics of journalism.
NEWSPAPER III HONORS 10335X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Newspaper I, Newspaper II HONORS, and teacher recommendation
This honors course provides advanced journalism studentsthe opportunity to expand their portfolios(begun in NewspaperII Honors) and to develop and delivertraining
modules for all staff positions. Students electing this course are required to fill an editor’s position or take a leadership role on the publication staff. In addition, they
refine writing, editing, imaging, finance, and printing skills. Students may receive honors credit in Newspaper III Honors one time only.
SHAKESPEARE 10252X0L 1 CREDIT
In this course students enlarge and expand their knowledge of Shakespeare's plays by studying selected histories, comedies, and tragedies. Students also learn about
the classical origins of Shakespeare's work, his influence on Western literature and culture, and relevant contemporary criticism of his dramas.
SHAKESPEARE HONORS 10255X0L 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): English I and II
This honors course providesstudents the opportunity to expand their knowledge of Shakespeare’s playsthrough in-depth study and analysis of selected Shakespearean
histories, comedies, and tragedies. Students also research the classical origins of Shakespearean works, Shakespeare’s influences on Western literature and culture,
and relevant contemporary criticism of his dramas.
SPEECH I 10142X0 1 CREDIT
This course, designed for the beginning and experienced public speaker alike, helps all students excel as it cultivates a positive and supportive classroom environment
in which students become comfortable in front of an audience of their peers, giving a wide variety of speeches, practicing the virtues of constructive criticism, and
learning the fundamentals of academic and legislative debate.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 103
SPEECH I HONORS 10145X0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed forstudentsinterested in exploring the Speech I curriculum at a more intensive and extensive level. Studentstaking this course for Honors credit
must write and deliver deeply considered and polished responses to course assignments, participate in peer review panels, and extend their thinking through preparing
presentations that fulfill fundamental standards for selected events promoted by the National Forensics League.
SPEECH II 10152X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Speech I
This course hones public speaking skills so that students may more rewardingly engage in competitive speaking and debate. Class activities are modeled on local, state,
and national events expected by the National Forensics League. Included are dramatic and humorous interpretations of poetry and prose, student Congress, public
forum and Lincoln-Douglas debate, extemporaneous speaking, and original oratory. Students who belong to a Speech and Debate Team will greatly benefit from this
course, but all students who want to take their skills to the next level would derive much benefit and pleasure.
SPEECH II HONORS 10155X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Speech I Honors
The Honors section of this course requires students to meet the rigorous and rewarding standards promoted by the National Forensics League. Students will explore
all of the main eventssponsored by the league: dramatic and humorousinterpretation of poetry and prose,student Congress, public forum and Lincoln- Douglas debate,
extemporaneous speaking, and original oratory. In the process of honing their skills, students will be expected to delve more deeply into the art of argumentation and
the resources available through advanced research.
STRUCTURED WRITING 10252X0J 1 CREDIT
Recommended for grade 10
This course is designed for students who need additional instruction in the writing process. Students work with focusing on the main idea, organization, support and
elaboration, style, and grammar/conventions. Students who need specific writing instruction and conferencing, as well as students who experience difficulty in writing
during English I or II, should take this course.
TRENDS AND MOVEMENTS IN YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE 10252X0M 1 CREDIT
This survey course on the development and changing visions of Young Adult Literature examines themes and trends in literature that has been written specifically for
teens. Students read young adult novels, drama, short stories, and poetry. They participate in literature circles, write analyses of work, do research, and develop
projects.
TWENTIETH CENTURY CLASSICS HONORS 10255X0R 1 CREDIT
This literature-based course is intended for those students interested in exploring classics of modern literature. The course examines how literature connects to a
variety of experiences such as coming of age, the search for purpose, the struggle of the outsider, the quest for dignity, and the place of humor. Within the course,
students deepen their understanding of how to read, analyze, discuss, and write about sophisticated and difficult texts.
YEARBOOK I 10312X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Application and teacher recommendation
The introductory yearbook course offers the student total involvement in the production of the school yearbook. Activities include advertising, layout planning,
photography, copywriting, and proofing.
YEARBOOK II 10322X0H 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Yearbook I, application, and teacher recommendation
The second-level yearbook course is designed to help students refine their skills in copywriting, proofing, photography, and layout planning. Students deepen their
understanding of advertising.
YEARBOOK II HONORS 10325X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Yearbook I and teacherrecommendation
This honors course is for junior- and senior-level publication staff members. Students are required to fill an editor's position or take a leadership role on the publication
staff. Students plan a yearbook ladder, complete various spreads and assignments, and complete a portfolio of work. They master advanced layout and design of
desktop publishing, digital imagery, and photo placement. Students may receive honors credit in Yearbook II Honors one time only.
YEARBOOK III 10332X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Yearbook I, Yearbook II, and teacher recommendation
Students who have completed Yearbook I and II and who desire to refine skillsin planning, layout, and technology may elect this course. In addition to the development
of higher-level writing skills and business management procedures, students enhance their knowledge of the laws and ethics of journalism.
YEARBOOK III HONORS 10335X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Yearbook I, Yearbook II HONORS, and teacher recommendation
This honors course provides journalism students the opportunity to expand their portfolios (begun in Yearbook II Honors) and to develop and deliver training modules
for all staff positions. Students electing this course are required to fill an editor’s position or take a leadership role on the yearbook staff. In addition, they increase
technological skills and refine writing skills. Students may receive honors credit in Yearbook III Honors one time only.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 104
English as a Second Language Courses
Students whose home language is not English and who are identified as Multilingual Learners may enroll in English as a Second Language (ESL) courses. The focus of
the ESL classroom is to help students obtain English proficiency in order to participate fully and successfully in all academic areas.
ESL courses may be offered astwo semester courses with one credit awarded for each semester. Students can take both semesters of a level, but it is not a requirement.
Students can repeat the same course level for original credit. Please refer to the WCPSS Language Assistance Program for English Learners Overview for additional
information regarding language level support for English Learners. The ESL teacher is the best resource for making decisions regarding course changes.
When scheduling and placing students in ESL courses, please pay particular attention to how this placement may have an impact on the student's progress toward
graduating on cohort.
ESL APPLIED 10382X0C 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners who are Newcomers (first year in U.S. schools) and at the Comprehensive level of support (Entering Level 1) on
the reading and writing subtests of the WIDA Screener. These Multilingual Learners have had very limited or no exposure to the English language and limited or
interrupted formal education. Students at this level may struggle significantly to manage classroom content and require extensive scaffolding and modification to
participate in learning activities. This course is designed to move students along the continuum of developing English as a new language. Recommended class size is a
maximum of 10-12 students.
ESL I 10382X02 (PartI) 1 CREDIT
10382X03 (PartII) 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners at the Comprehensive level of support (Entering Level 1) and/or Emerging (Level 2) on the Reading and Writing
subtests of the WIDA Screener or ACCESS tests. Students in this course tend to be in Year 1 or Year 2 of schooling in the U.S., have very limited or no English language
proficiency, struggle significantly to manage classroom content and require extensive scaffolding and modification to participate in learning activities. This course is
designed to move students along the continuum of developing English as a new language. Recommended class size is a maximum of 10-12 students.
ESL II 10382X04 (PartI) 1 CREDIT
10382X05 (PartII) 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners at the Comprehensive / Moderate level of support (Emerging Level 2 and/or Developing Level 3) on the Reading
and Writing subtests of the WIDA screener or ACCESS tests. Students in the course tend to be in Year 2, Year 3, or Year 4 of schooling in the U.S., are able to converse
with teachers and peers in English about familiar topics and some academic topics, may be able to manage grade-level content with language scaffolds and require
moderate scaffolding and modifications to participate in learning activities. This course is designed to move students along the continuum of developing English as a
new language. Recommended class size is a maximum of 12-15 students.
ESL III 10382X06 (PartI) 1 CREDIT
10382X062 (Part II) 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners at the Moderate level of support (Developing Level 3 and/or Expanding Level 4) on the Reading and Writing
subtests of the WIDA Screener or ACCESS tests. Students in the course tend to be in Year 3 or Year 4 of schooling in the U.S., are able to converse with teachers and
peers in English about familiar topics and many academic topics, may be able to manage grade-level content with language scaffolds and require minimal scaffolding
and modifications to participate in learning activities. This course is designed to move students along the continuum of developing English as a new language.
Recommended class size is a maximum of 15 students.
ESL IV 10382X07 (PartI) 1 CREDIT
10382X072 (Part II) 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners at the Moderate / Transitional level of support (Expanding Level 4 and/or Bridging Level 5) on the Reading and
Writing subtests of the WIDA Screener or ACCESS tests. Students in this course tend to be in Year 3, Year 4, or Year 5 of schooling in the U.S., are able to converse with
teachers and peers in English about familiar topics and most academic topics, manage grade-level content with minimal language support language scaffolds and are
able to participate in classroom activities with some language scaffolding. This course is designed to move students along the continuum of developing English as a
new language. Recommended class size is a maximum of 15 students.
ADVANCED LANGUAGE SUPPORT FOR MLs 10382X08 (Part I) 1 CREDIT
10382X082 (Part II) 1 CREDIT
This course is recommended for Multilingual Learners at the Transitional level of support and will focus on the finer details of the English language, specifically the
academic language and skills needed for success in the regular classroom. Instruction will include support for higher levels of English language development, and
guidance for organizing and completing projects and related tasks. Recommended class size is a maximum of 15 students.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 105
Healthful Living Courses
The Healthful Living I course is required for high school graduation. Students are encouraged to enrich their skills in leadership, health and nutrition education through
enrollment in Healthful Living elective options.
REQUIRED COURSE
HEALTHFUL LIVING I 60492X0 1 CREDIT
The completion of Healthful Living I is a North Carolina high school graduation requirement. The course consists of the required high school healthful living essential
standards and clarifying objectives approved by the North Carolina State Board of Education and required by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction. After
completing Healthful Living I students are encouraged to pursue other Healthful Living electives.
Physical education components include the progressive development of motor skills and movement concepts along with learning opportunities that promote health
related fitness and personal/social responsibility. Health components include analyzing the relation between nutrition and physical activity, understanding the
importance and consumer health, learning solid decision-making to prevent use of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs. Opportunities to practice solid decision making
and conflict resolution strategies are provided to assist students in the development of healthy mental and emotional health through productive interpersonal
communication and development of relationships.
HEALTHFUL LIVING I HONORS 60495X0 1 CREDIT
The completion of Healthful Living I meets the North Carolina high school graduation requirement for Healthful Living. The Honors Healthful Living I course presents
high rigor learning opportunities to meet the required high school healthful living essential standards and clarifying objectives approved by the North Carolina State
Board of Education and required by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction. After completing Healthful Living I students are encouraged to pursue other
Healthful Living electives.
Physical education components go beyond the standard Healthful Living I offering using student-led project coursework which demands higher-level knowledge of
Physical Education principles. Health components go beyond the standard Health Education offering by blending neuroscientific principles with behavioral health
concepts.
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY-BASED ELECTIVE COURSES
ADVENTURE EDUCATION 60292X0G 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course is based on the outdoor education model “Project Adventure” and is designed to provide opportunities for students to make positive choices, gain selfconfidence, and challenge themselves to go beyond their perceived boundaries. Project Adventure empowers youth to experience and practice leadership, teamwork,
problem-solving, and conflict resolution. Students participate in activities (dependent on school resources) such as orienteering, low ropes courses, team-building
initiatives, cooperative games (New Games), and other activities. The students learn to work more effectively with others, stimulate creative thinking, and foster team
building, self-confidence, and leadership skills. There is also a special focus for students interested in participating in triathlons.
PHYSICAL FITNESS I 60602X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course emphasizesregular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activitiesthat promote a healthy and wellness-oriented lifestyle. Thisis an individual healthrelated fitness course in which the students, through active participation, develop knowledge and skills to provide enjoyment in the areas of cardiovascular fitness,
flexibility, and muscular strength/endurance.
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING I 60292X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course is designed for the novice weight-training student. It involvesintroductory techniques of weight training and cardiovascular conditioning,safety precautions,
and injury prevention, and other methods of weight management. The major focuses are general muscle toning and achieving total fitness. The development of a
personal fitness program is a part of this course.
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING II 60292X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Weight Training and Conditioning I
This course is designed to improve muscular strength and power through progressive weight training techniques. More advanced coursework on the principles of
cardiovascularfitness and strength development are parts of this course. The course includestechniques and skills as well as alternative strategiesfor developing overall
strength and conditioning. The refinement of the student’s personal fitness plan is included in this course.
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING III 60292X0L 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Weight Training and Conditioning I & II
This course is forstudents interested in trying some advanced lifting and exercise techniques which may include Olympic lifts, plyometric training, and agility and speed
workouts. Coursework may include the basic principles of exercise prescription, sports nutrition, exercise testing and evaluation, cardiovascular fitness, and strength
development. The course includestechniques and skills as well as alternative strategiesfor developing overallstrength and conditioning. The design and implementation
of the student’s personal fitness plan is included in this course.
TEAM SPORTS I 60292X0J 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course is designed to include the development of general personal fitness, and active participation in team sports such as basketball, soccer, flag football, lacrosse,
volleyball, and softball. Activities are equally divided within the total weeks of instruction. This course includes the history, rules, and terminology with an emphasis on
skill development, officiating, game strategies, and leadership.
TEAM SPORTS II 60292X0K 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Team Sports I
This course is designed to include the development of a greater in-depth knowledge, the application of personal fitness skills, and the demonstration of more advanced
team sport skills. Please see Team Sports I for a general listing of activities for this elective.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 106
LIFETIME SPORTS I 60292X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
Standard Version - This course is designed to include the development of general personal fitness, and active participation in lifetime sports such as golf, tennis,
badminton, table tennis, bowling, archery, racquetball, and pickleball. Activities are equally divided within the total weeks of the semester. This course includes the
history, rules, and terminology with an emphasis on skill development, game strategies, and safety.
Unified Sports Version - This course is designed to promote the Special Olympics Unified Sports model. Unified Sports joins people with and without intellectual
disabilities on the same team. It was inspired by a simple principle: training together and playing together is a quick path to friendship and understanding. Students
will team together to participate in Lifetime Sports Activities and tournaments with the goal of attaining skills and cultivating relationships.
LIFETIME SPORTS II 60292X0E 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Lifetime Sports I
This course is designed to include the development of a greater knowledge and application of personal fitness development, demonstration of more advanced skills in
lifetime sports. Activities are equally divided within the total weeks of the semester.
HEALTH & SCIENCE-BASED ELECTIVE COURSES
PERSONAL HEALTH & FITNESS 60092X0K 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course helpsstudents obtain further up-to-date information in the areas of psychology, fitness and exercise, health environment, first aid, and safety. In this course,
students will be certified in American Red Cross Community CPR and First Aid. They also develop a deeper understanding of high-interest health topics (nutrition and
weight management, drug and alcohol addiction, eating disorders, and personal health issues), and how to develop and enhance cardiovascular and muscle strength
and endurance through activities such as aerobics, step aerobics, and weightlifting. This course would be beneficial to students interested in lifeguarding, baby-sitting,
and other personal health and safety careers. This is a good foundation course for students wishing to enroll in Sports Medicine I.
COMMUNITY FIRST AID & SAFETY/EMERGENCY RESPONSE 60092X0G 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
This course offers an in-depth focus on first aid, safety, and emergency response. Students will be certified in Community First Aid and Safety (Adult/Child/Infant CPR
and basic first aid are the main components) or Emergency Response (CPR for the professional rescuer, emergency response, and an Automatic External Defibrillator
(AED) section are the main components.) This course would be beneficial to students interested in “First Responder” and safety careers. This is a good foundation
course for students wishing to enroll in Sports Medicine I.
SPORTS MEDICINE I 60632X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I, Community First Aid &Safety/Emergency Response, or Personal Health & Fitness
This course is designed for students interested in the career of athletic training. The primary focus includes, but is not limited to, the following topics: The Athletic
Training/Sports Medicine (ATSM) Team, organization and administration, injury prevention, physical training and conditioning techniques, nutritional considerations,
protective sports equipment, psychology of sport injury/illness, mechanisms and characteristics of sports trauma, tissue response to injury, human anatomy, exercise
physiology, biomechanics, kinesiology, CPR/blood borne pathogens, injury assessment and evaluation, environmental concerns, basic taping and bandaging,
explanations of therapeutic modalities, basic exercise rehabilitation, drug use/abuse in sports, and skin disorders. Students may be required to engage in practical
experience outside of class for the purpose of applying knowledge and techniques learned in class.
SPORTS MEDICINE II 60642X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Sports Medicine I
This course is designed for students wanting to further their knowledge in the field of athletic training through the integration of information presented in Sports
Medicine I. The primary focusincludes but is not limited to the following topics: human anatomy, exercise physiology, biomechanics, kinesiology, specific sportsinjuries
or conditionsrelated to the foot/ankle/lowerleg, knee, shoulder, elbow, forearm, wrist/hand, hip, thigh, groin, pelvis, abdomen, thorax, lumbar/thoracic/cervicalspine,
head, face, in addition to other health considerations and advanced taping techniques. Students may be required to engage in practical experience outside of class for
the purpose of applying knowledge and techniques learned in class.
SPORTS MEDICINE III HONORS 60655X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Successful completion of Sports Medicine I and II
Sport Medicine III Honors provides a global exploration of fundamental injury rehabilitation topics. This course can only be taught by a nationally certified athletic
trainer. The course deeply explores the injury rehabilitation process including full understanding of tissue healing and modalities. In addition, the student will
demonstrate how both these and the required components of a complete rehabilitation plan are taken into account while addressing specific injuries and conditions.
Small student learning groups will learn economic management skills in creating an athletic training room supply list that will require adherence to a budget and being
creative in money-saving strategies. Another mandate of the course requires the American Red Cross (ARC) certified instructor to maintain the student’s certification
in Adult CPR and AED. This process is delineated by the requirementsset forth by the American Red Crossto achieve such certification. This course expands on the state
standards for Healthful Living and Biology and infuses clinical application of medical skills and health literacy.
SPORTS MEDICINE IV HONORS 60665X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Successful completion of Sports Medicine I, II, and III
Sports Medicine IV Honors provides global exploration of important health topicsthrough a societal lens. This course can only be taught by a nationally certified athletic
trainer. This is a two-part course. The first portion is a student driven research project of a predetermined instructor assigned health topic that is encountered in the
field of athletic training. Small student learning groups will independently research their topic to an extensive level in order to create a product that is used to educate
their peers. The product must include hands-on learning activities, delivery of content that utilizes technology, and a summative assessment tool. The second portion
of the course requires the American Red Cross (ARC) certified instructor to lead students through the process of Emergency Response certification. This process is
delineated by the requirements set forth by the American Red Cross to achieve such certification. This course expands on the state standards for Healthy Living and
Biology and infuses clinical application of medical skills and health literacy.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 107
LEADERSHIP-BASED ELECTIVE COURSES
PEPI I (PHYSICAL EDUCATION PUPIL INSTRUCTORS) 60292X0T 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Healthful Living I
 The course is designed for students interested in serving as physical education aides to elementary classroom teachers. Special training in the area of elementary
physical education is given to each student prior to working in the schools. Students are trained in classroom management; development of physical activity lessons,
conflict resolution skills, and providing lessons aligned to the Physical Education goals in the North Carolina Standard Course of Study. This course is designed for students
interested in careers related to teaching or recreation leadership.
PEPI II 60292X0U 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): PEPI I
The course is an extension of PEPI I. Students in this course will take a more active role as a pupil instructor at the assigned elementary school. They are provided with
additional opportunities to work with students at different grade levels and are expected to demonstrate a greater level of leadership within the PEPI program. This
course is designed for students interested in careers related to teaching or recreation leadership.
JROTC Courses
Previous performance in JROTC courses and teacherrecommendation should be considered in course selection.
AIR FORCE JROTC COURSE DESCRIPTION (Broughton and Sanderson High Schools only)
The mission of the AFJROTC program isto “Develop citizens of character dedicated to serving their nation and community.” The Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training
Course (AFJROTC) is designed as a four-year program. Although participation in the entire program is encouraged, students may take one to four years if desired. One
year of Healthful Living credit is awarded to students who complete AFJROTC/Healthful Living I and AFJROTC/Healthful Living II. Thisfillsthe Healthful Living requirement
for high school graduation.
Classes are fun, active and challenging. Classes meet with the same frequency as other full-credit classes. Regulation Air Force uniforms are issued free of charge and
are worn once each week and for appropriate cadet functions. Tripsto various military facilities are taken throughout the year to observe military operationsfirst-hand.
Supervised orientation flights aboard military aircraft are offered when available from supporting military bases. The cadet corps color guard and drill teams compete
against other JROTC units throughout the state and perform at school and community events. Returning cadets are offered an opportunity to attend a Summer Cadet
Officer Leadership School. Corps’ activities and class work are designed to build camaraderie among the cadets. Students are given the opportunity to build on their
social and leadership skills in a variety of challenging and enjoyable activities.
No military service obligation resultsfrom participation in the AFJROTC program. Further, the AFJROTC program is not a recruiting platform forthe
U.S. Military Services. However, upon graduation, students with two or three years of AFJROTC, and who are otherwise qualified, may enlist in a branch of the military
with advanced rank and pay. Students going on to college may qualify for three and four-yearsenior ROTC college scholarships, which pay for all tuition, fees and books,
in addition to a tax-free stipend of $300.00 each month for the scholarship holder.
AFJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I A 95012X0AA 1 CREDIT
This is the introductory course to AFJROTC Aerospace Science and Leadership Education. Students develop skills and self-discipline through class instruction, hands-on
activities, and military drill. Academic instruction covers the history of aviation. This course is interspersed with concise overviews of the principles of flight to include
basic aeronautics, aircraft motion and control, flight power, and rockets. Throughout the course, there are readings, videos, hands-on activities, and in-text and student
workbook exercises to guide in the reinforcement of the materials. Communication skills, problem solving, human relations, and logical thinking are taught. Cadets are
required to participate in physical education training and activities. Physical education components include fitness training, personal fitness, and individual and dual
team sport skills. Health components include the study of assessing one’s own health, nutrition and weight management, substance abuse, and conflict resolution. A
North Carolina certified Health/PE instructorteachesthe Healthful Living portion of the curriculum. To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet mustsuccessfully complete
both AFJROTC/Healthful Living I A and AFJROTC/Healthful Living I B.
AFJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I B 95012X0BB 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AFJROTC/Healthful Living I A
This course is a continuation in the study of Aerospace Science and Leadership Education. Academic emphasis is on the aerospace environment, meteorology, flight
physiology, and the principles of flight and navigation. Leadership emphasis is on understanding individual and group behavior, improving communication skills, and
the introduction to leadership theories. Cadets are required to participate in physical education training and activities. Physical education components include fitness
testing, personal fitness, team sports, aerobics, and outdoor education skills. Health components include the study of assessing one’s own health, nutrition and weight
management, substance abuse, and stress management. To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet must successfully complete both AFJROTC/Healthful Living I A and
AFJROTC/Healthful Living I B.
JROTC II 95022X0BB 1 CREDIT
Prerequisite: JROTC I Course (A & B), Grade 10-12
Credit: 1.0 Per Semester – This course includes classroom instruction and laboratory instruction expanding on skills taught in JROTC I. This course introduces equal
opportunity and sexual harassment. It provides instruction on leadership styles and practical time to exercise leadership theories as well as the basic principles of
management. JROTC II provides self-assessments that help students determine their skill sets and opportunities to each using acceptable principles and methods of
instruction. The performance standards in this course are based on the performance standards identified in the Curriculum Manager for the US Army JROTC.
AFJROTC III 95032X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AFJROTC I orII
This course is a continuation in the study of Aerospace Science and Leadership Education. Academic emphasis is on a multidisciplinary course titled Global and Cultural
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 108
Studies that introduces students to various regions of the world from a geographic, historical and cultural perspective. The course provides increased international
awareness and insight into foreign affairs that permits a more educated understanding of other cultures and enhanced knowledge of America’s interest and role in the
world. Geopolitical issues such as terrorism, economics, politics, military issues, religion, environmental concerns, human rights, disease, over population, literacy, the
migration of peoples and other cultural issues are examined. The regional areas included in the course are Europe, the Middle East, South Asia, East Asia, Africa, and
Latin America. The lessons include excellent videos to provide a window into life and issues within the regions, followed by a variety of hands-on activities created to
engage the cadets. Readings are also available to set the stage for each lesson, along with workbook exercisessuitable forin-class or homework assignments. Leadership
emphasis is on life skills such as managing others, stress management, financial management, citizenship, and ethics. Third year cadets put leadership skills learned in
AFJROTC I and II into practice by holding key leadership roles in the corps of cadets. Physical fitness continues to be important in the cadet’s development and is 20%
of the curriculum.
 AFJROTC III HONORS 95035X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AFJROTC II
This is an honors level course in applied leadership using the AFJROTC organization as a leadership laboratory. Advanced reading assignments, writing assignments,
practical actions, and analysis are requirements for this course. This course is designed to give the third-year cadet assigned to a mid-level leadership position a better
understanding of leadership in small groups. As junior cadet leaders, these students will learn to analyze and determine the factors contributing to success and failure
as they plan and execute projects and activities. Cadets in the honors class are expected to be active in after-school preparation for corps projects and extracurricular
activities, such as the corps competitive drill team. Participation in numerous major group projects will be required to fulfill the product requirements of this course.
Examples include the annual military ball and the corps competitive drill team (specific projects will be determined by the Senior Aerospace Science Instructors). This
course providesthe unit’s cadet mid-level leadersthe tools needed to effectively run the corps of cadets. This course is a continuation in the study of Aerospace Science
and Leadership Education. Academic emphasisis on a multidisciplinary course titled Global and Cultural Studiesthat introducesstudents to variousregions of the world
from a geographic, historical and cultural perspective. The course provides increased international awareness and insight into foreign affairs that permits a more
educated understanding of other cultures and enhanced knowledge of America’s interests and role in the world. Geopolitical issues such as terrorism, economics,
politics, military issues, religion, environmental concerns, human rights, disease, over population, literacy, the migration of peoples and other cultural issues are
examined. The regional areas included in this course are Europe, the Middle East, South Asia, East Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The lessons include excellent videos
to provide a window into life and issues within the regions, followed by a variety of hands-on activities created to engage the cadets. Readings are also available to set
the stage for each lesson, along with workbook exercises suitable for in-class or homework assignments. Leadership emphasis is on life skills such as managing others,
stress management, financial management, citizenship, and ethics. Third year honor’s course cadets put leadership skills learned in AFJROTC I and II into practice by
holding the top key leadership roles in the corps of cadets. Physical fitness continues to be important in the cadet’s development and is 20% of the curriculum.
AFJROTC IV 95042X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AFJROTC III
Thisisthe advanced course of Aerospace Science and Leadership Education forstudents who have successfully completed AFJROTC III. Subjects coverthe basic elements
of survival, principles of management, and preparation for life after high school. The fourth-year cadets apply leadership using AFJROTC organization as a basis for
practical actions and analysis. Throughout the year, cadets manage all aspects of cadet corps activities. This hands-on experience affords senior cadets the opportunity
to put theories into practice in communication, decision-making, personal interaction, managing, and organizing. A variety of historical leaders, leadership situations,
and institutions are studied, and cadets are required to write papers and make presentations on their research. Physical fitness continuesto be important in the cadet’s
development and is 20% of the curriculum.
AFJROTC IV HONORS 95045X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AFJROTC III
This is an honors level course in applied leadership using the AFJROTC organization as a leadership laboratory. Advanced reading assignments, writing assignments,
practical actions, and analysis are requirements for this course. This course is designed to give the fourth-year cadets assigned to senior-leadership positions a better
understanding of leadership through management of the cadet corps. As senior cadet leaders, these students learn to analyze and determine the factors contributing
to success and failure as they plan and execute corps projects and activities. A variety of leadership and management styles, personalities, and traits are studied. Cadets
are required to read at least one book each quarter from the approved reading list and to present oral and written reports on their reading to the class. Weekly reading
and writing assignments, along with classroom presentations, also are required based on selected readings from the AFJROTC IV course text. Cadet corps leaders in the
honors class are expected to be active in after-school preparation for corps projects and extracurricular activities, such as the corps competitive drill team. Numerous
major group projects are required to fulfill the product requirements of this course. Examples include the annual military ball and building the corps competitive drill
team. (Specific projects are determined by the Senior Aerospace Science Instructors.) Physical fitness continues to be important in the cadet’s development and is 20%
of the curriculum.
ARMY (Wake Forest, Rolesville High School Millbrook High School, Enloe High School, Garner High School, and Knightdale High School)
The Army Junior Reserve Officer Training Course (AJROTC) is designed as a four-year Leadership Education and Training (LET) program. The core requirements of the
program are met by taking AJROTCI, AJROTC II, AJROTC III, AJROTC IV, consecutively, normally in the fall semester. Cadets are afforded the opportunity to expand their
AJROTC training in the spring semester by enrolling in Leadership, Drill, and Ceremonies. The mission of Army JROTC is “to motivate young people to be better citizens.”
Its purpose is to instill students with the values of citizenship, service to the community, personal responsibility, and a sense of accomplishment. Army JROTC offers
student-centered classroom activities and outside-related experiences for the participants to acquire the knowledge, skills, self-discipline, patriotism, sense of
responsibility, and respect for constituted authority that better prepare them for the future. Army JROTC classes are active, fun, and challenging. Classes offer academic
challenges, practical leadership experience, marksmanship and physical training, and training in drill and ceremony. Regulation Army uniforms are issued to cadets free
of charge and are required to be worn once each week, usually Wednesdays, and to appropriate cadet functions. Cadets are afforded the opportunity to participate in
several extra-curricular activitiessuch as Color Guard, drill team, marksmanship team, and raider team and as part of the Cadet Corpsin community parades and special
events. The Color Guard performs at varsity athletic events and several community, civic and veteran’sfunctions. The Color Guard and otherspecial teams also compete
against other AJROTC units throughout the area. Returning cadets are offered an opportunity to compete for the privilege of attending a one-week camp for
leadership/adventure training. The extra-curricular activities are designed to build camaraderie and sense of belonging among the cadets. Cadets earn awards, ribbons,
and rank based upon their overall participation and academic performance.
No military service obligation is incurred from participation in the Army JROTC program. There are, however, some significant benefits that cadets can earn regarding
advanced rank for enlistment, ROTC scholarships, and appointments to the military academies.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 109
AJROTC I/ HEALTHFUL LIVING I A 95012X0A 1 CREDIT
This is the introductory course to AJROTC Leadership Education Training (LET). Students develop leadership skills and self-discipline through classroom instruction,
hands-on activities, drill and ceremonies. Academic instruction covers the history of the military and leadership theory. This course is interspersed with concise
overviews of the principles of leadership, to include basic principles of Citizenship in Action, Leadership Theory and Application, Foundations for Success, Drill and
Ceremony, other citizenship and life management skills. Throughout the course, there are case studies readings, interactive videos, hands-on activities, and public
speaking, in-text and student workbook exercises to guide in the reinforcement of the materials. Communication skills, problem solving, human relations, and critical
thinking are also taught. Cadets are required to participate in formal ceremonies, parades, adventure training, leadership applications, history and traditions of the
military. Cadets are required to participate in physical education training and activities. Physical education components include fitness training, personal fitness, and
individual and dual team sport skills. Health components include the study of assessing one’s own health, nutrition and weight management, substance abuse, and
conflict resolution. A North Carolina certified Health/PE instructor teachesthe Healthful Living portion of the curriculum. To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet must
successfully complete both AJROTC/Healthful Living I A and AJROTC II/Healthful Living I B.
AJROTC II/ HEALTHFUL LIVING I B 95022X0B 1 CREDIT
Required prerequisite(s): AJROTC/Healthful Living I A
This course is a continuation in the study of Leadership and Education Training with the focus directed at achieving a healthy lifestyle, through skills and knowledge
gained along the way. Leadership is a continued emphasis, specifically, understanding individual and group behavior, improving communication skills, and the
introduction to leadership theories with reinforcing practical applications. The physical education componentsinclude the Cadet Challenge fitnesstest, personal fitness,
team sports, aerobics, outdoor education skills and Ballroom Dancing. Cadets are required to participate in a Service-Learning project, physical education training and
JROTC Leadership Challenge Summer Camp activities. Cadets are required to participate in physical education training and activities. Physical education components
include fitness training, personal fitness, and individual and dual team sport skills. Health components include the study of assessing one’s own health, nutrition and
weight management, substance abuse, and conflict resolution. A North Carolina certified Health/PE instructor teaches the Healthful Living portion of the curriculum.
To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet must successfully complete both AJROTC/Healthful Living I A and AJROTC II/Healthful Living I B.
AJROTC III 95032X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AJROTC II
This course is a continuation of the Leadership Education and Training program. This course can be taken in the fall semester. Spring semester is by Senior Army
Instructor’s approval only. Academic emphasis is concentrated on expanding upon the base of knowledge gained at the first and second levels. Studies include topics
on the Nation’s defense forces and the federal judicial system. Foundations for success studies include conflict resolution, career planning, planning skills, financial
planning, mediation, emotional intelligence and service learning. Othersubject areas include orienteering, environmental awareness, and world geography. Cadets are
given additional leadership training and are selected to fill leader and staff positions in the Cadet Organization, which affords them the opportunity to put their
leadership skills into practice. Cadets are required to lead and/or participate in major events, marching activities, physical training, and other assigned projects.
AJROTC III HONORS 95035X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AJROTC II
This is an honors level course in applied leadership using the Cadet Organization as the basis for practical application. This course can be taken in the fall semester.
Spring semester is by Senior Army Instructor’s approval only. The course is designed to give the AJROTC III level cadets a better understanding of leadership through
management of the cadet corps or major projects in support of the cadet corps such as the military ball, major award ceremonies, and formal inspections. In addition
to regular AJROTC III academic instruction, the AJROTC III Honors cadet is required to read and report, both verbally and in writing, on four selected books or readings
about leadership. The Honors cadet is expected to participate in AJROTC extra-curricular activities such as the competitive drill team. They are also expected to lead
and/or participate in major events, marching activities, physical training and other assigned projects. Students may receive honors credit in AJROTC II Honors one time
only.
AJROTC IV 95042X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AJROTC III
This is an advanced course in applied leadership using the Cadet Organization as the basis for practical application. This course can be taken in the fall semester. Spring
semester is by Senior Army Instructor’s approval only. The course is designed for cadets to assume and perform the responsibilities of leadership and staff positions. In
their positions as senior leaders, these cadets plan, organize, implement, and lead the activities of the Cadet Organization. They gain experience in all aspects of the
administration and logistics involved in maintaining a successful organization. Academic instruction is geared to prepare cadets for life after high school. They are
instructed in college and career planning, making a difference through community service, and creating a portfolio. The cadets are instructed in democracy and freedom,
local government, and Presidential power and are required to stay abreast of local issues. They are also required to lead and/or participate in major events, marching
activities, physical training, and other assigned projects.
AJROTC IV HONORS 95045X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AJROTC III
Thisis an honorslevel course in applied leadership using the Cadet Organization asthe basisfor practical application. This course can be taken in the fall. Spring semester
is by Senior Army Instructor’s approval only. The course is designed to give the AJROTC IV cadets a better understanding of leadership through management of the
cadet corps or major projects in support of the cadet corps such as the military ball, major award ceremonies, and formal inspections. In addition to regular AJROTC IV
academic instruction, the AJROTC IV Honors cadet is required to read and report, both verbally and in writing, on four selected books or readings on famous historical
military leaders. The Honors cadet is expected to participate in AJROTC extra-curricular activities such as the competitive drill team. They are also expected to lead d/or
participate in major events, marching activities, physical training and other assigned projects. Students may receive honors credit in AJROTC IV Honors one time only.
LEADERSHIP, DRILL, AND CEREMONIES 95022X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AJROTC I
This course consists of advanced instruction in leadership, drill and ceremonies with particular emphasis on cadet participation in their earned leadership roles. This
course is offered in the spring semester only. In their leadership positions, these cadets plan, organize, implement, and lead the activities of the Cadet Organization.
They gain experience in all aspects of the administration and logistics involved in maintaining a successful organization. Instruction and practical application include the
following topics: first aid, survival, and marksmanship. This is a physically active course, much of which is conducted outdoors.
LEADERSHIP, DRILL, AND CEREMONIES HONORS 95025X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Army Science/Healthful Living I, Leadership, Drill and Ceremonies or AJROTC I and at least two years ofsuccessful drill team experience
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 110
This course includes advanced leadership training, advanced level drill and ceremonies topics. Students will serve in leadership billets in the class and will assist with
the drill and ceremonies instruction. Emphasis will be on developing senior enlisted, junior officer and senior officer leadership skills. Topics of instruction include
leadership models, biographies, and the motivational dynamics of leadership taught through seminars and case studies. There will be required reading and writing
assignments in leadership focusing on the military and business models. This course will also focus on the applied aspects of drill and physical fitness. Cadets will be
required to function in student’s leadership billets.
NAVY (Cary High School Only)
Navy Junior Reserve Officer Training Course (NJROTC) is designed as a four-year program. Participation is voluntary and cadets may choose to take a NJROTC course
each semester orselectively aslong asthe prerequisite courses have been previously completed or permission of the NJROTC instructor is granted. One year of Healthful
Living credit is awarded to students who complete Naval Science/Healthful Living I and Naval Science/Healthful Living V. This fulfills the Healthful Living requirement
for high school graduation. NJROTC courses beyond level I are identified as advanced electives under the North Carolina Academic Scholars Program. NJROTC classes
are challenging, active, and fun. The goal of the program is to prepare students to be good citizens and leaders. Classes meet one period daily and each course includes
instruction on drill and physical fitness. The academic, drill, and physical fitness components of the curriculum are prepared by the U. S. Navy and textbooks are provided
through the Chief of Naval Education and Training (CNET). The Navy provides textbooks and uniforms to each student free of charge. The uniforms must be worn once
per week at a minimum and to other appropriate cadet functions as designated by the SNSI. All students/parents are required to complete an annual health screening
questionnaire and to have an annual Wake County Sports Physical no later than September 1st each school year. All NJROTC courses have time during class devoted to
drill and physical training. Trips to various military facilities provide a look at military personnel, equipment, training, and activities.
Naval Junior ROTC is a complete program and offers a variety of co-curricular competitive and non-competitive activities. The unit performs school, community, and
unit service as well as performing in parades and in color guards at school and in the community. The unit also sponsors voluntary, competitive, co-curricular teams in
Academics, Color Guard, Drill, Field Team, Marksmanship (sport and precision division), Orienteering, and Physical Fitness. Cadets have opportunities annually to attend
various summer camps to build their professional knowledge and enhance their skills. The co- curricular activities are designed to build camaraderie and a sense of
belonging among the cadets and provide them opportunities to build their social and leadership skills in a variety of enjoyable and challenging activities. Cadets earn
meritribbons, medals and promotions based on theirin-class performance, co-curricular participation, and displayed followership and leadership. Superior participation
in the co-curricular activities may result in earning a Cary High School Letter. Students who have participated in NJROTC one or more semesters, and who are committed
to returning to another NJROTC course the following, semester may wear the uniform weekly (all day on uniform day and participation in other required events,
inspections parades etc.) and remain eligible during the off semester for NJROTC extra-curricular activities.
No military service obligation is incurred as a result of NJROTC participation. There are, however, some significant benefits, which cadets can earn through participation
and demonstrated success in NJROTC. These include advanced rank for enlistment, nominations for college ROTC scholarships, and nominations to the Military
Academies.
NJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I A 95012X0A 1 CREDIT
The Naval Science/Healthful Living I curriculum includes Introduction to Leadership; Naval Ships; Mission and Organization; The Navy and the People in a Democracy;
Maritime Geography; Sea Power; Naval History to 1860; Oceanography; Introduction to Navigation and Time; Basic Seamanship; and First Aid. Physical education
components include fitness, training, personal fitness and individual and dual team sport skills. Health components include the study of assessing one’s own health,
nutrition and weight management, substance abuse, and conflict resolution. A North Carolina certified Health/PE instructor teaches the Healthful Living portion of the
curriculum. To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet must successfully complete both Naval Science/Healthful Living I A and Naval Science Healthful Living I B.
NJROTC II /HEALTHFUL LIVING I B 95022X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science/Healthful Living I A
The Naval Science/Healthful Living II curriculum includes Leadership in NJROTC, Naval Orientation; Planning; Citizenship in a Democracy and Under Other Forms of
Government; Naval History: 1860 through 1945; Naval Ships and Shipboard Evaluations; Naval Weapons: Gunnery, Guided Missiles and Mines; Navigation Fundamentals
and Rules of the Road; Small Boat Seamanship; and Survival Training and Orienteering. Physical education components include fitness testing, personal fitness, team
sports, aerobics, and outdoor education skills. Health componentsinclude the study of assessing one’s own health, nutrition and weight management,substance abuse,
and stress management. To receive Healthful Living credit, a cadet must successfully complete both Naval Science/Healthful Living I A and Naval Science/Healthful
Living I B.
NJROTC III 95032X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science/Healthful Living II
This curriculum includes advanced instruction in Leadership, Military Justice, Astronomy, International Law and the Sea, National Strategy, Sea Power and Naval
Operations, Naval History: 1945 to the Gulf War, Meteorology and Weather, Naval Intelligence and National Security, Maneuver Board, Challenges of Future Navy
Research, and Electricity and Naval Electronics.
NJROTC III HONORS 95035X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science/Healthful Living II
The Naval Science III curriculum consists of instruction and practical application in Leadership, International Law, National Security, Shipboard Organization and Watch
Standing, Seamanship (to include deck, equipment and small boat), Maine Navigation, Rules for the Road and Maneuvering Board, Naval Weapons and Aircraft, Drill,
and Physical Fitness. The curriculum includes the study of a variety of leadership styles in a case study format. These studies focus on biographies of military, political,
business, and industrial leaders and challenge students to analyze their endeavors. Case studies of battles and business are also included. Students are required to
complete numerous independent readings and at least two books and two papers are required during the. This course is presented in an open discussion format.
Students may receive honors credit in Naval Science III Honors one time only.
NJROTC IV 95042X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science III
Naval Science IV is an advanced course in applied leadership using the NJROTC organization as a basis for practical actions and analysis. The intent is to assist fourth
year cadetsin understanding leadership and applying it within the context of the unit. In their positions of leadership, these cadets analyze and determine the underlying
factors contributing to their varying degrees ofsuccess, throughout the year. A variety of historical leadership situations, institutions, and personalities are studied, and
cadets are required to write papers and make presentations about their research and findings. Preparation for the practical leadership course requires several sessions
of orientation to ensure development of unit goals, procedures, and requirements. Weekly reading assignments from selected leadership texts are required along with
classroom presentations. The cadets use this course to provide leadership and direction for the school’s NJROTC unit.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 111
NJROTC IV HONORS 95045X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science III
This is an honors level course in applied leadership using the NJROTC organization as a basisfor advanced writing assignments, outside readings, and project leadership
are all requirements of this course. This course is specifically designed to assist senior cadets who are assigned leadership positions to better understand leadership
and management through application in the context of the NJROTC unit. In their positions of leadership these students learn to analyze and determine the factors
contributing to varying degrees ofsuccessin unit projects. A variety of leadership and communicationsreadings and historical articles are introduced to study leadership
styles, personalities, and institutions. Cadets do extensive outside readings, prepare papers, and present oral presentations to the class. Preparation for the practical
leadership applications requires weekly after school seminars and co-curricular participations. Two major projects per semester fulfill the “product requirement” for
the course. Students are assigned participation and leadership roles for a variety of community services, school service, and unit service projects conducted by the
NJROTC unit and selected jointly by the instructor and cadet leadership. This course specifically helps hone the training of unit leaders and provides a decision-making
forum for the corps of cadets. Students may receive honors credit in Naval Science IV Honors one time only.
LEADERSHIP, DRILL AND CEREMONIES 95022X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Naval Science/Healthful Living I
Note: Students can take this course more than once and receive credit.
This course consists of advanced instruction in all levels of Naval Service Drill and Ceremonies with particular emphasis on student participation in leadership roles at
the Cadet Petty Officer, Chief Petty Officer, and Junior Officer Level. Topics of instruction include History of Military Customs, Courtesies, Etiquette, and Ceremonies,
Squad, Platoon, Company and Battalion Drill and Ceremonies, Manual of Arms with the Sword, Guidon Manual, National and Organizational Flags and Color Guards,
Parades, Inspection, Armed and Unarmed Exhibition Drill, and Personal and Unit Physical Fitness. This is a physically active course conducted outdoors.
LEADERSHIP, DRILL, AND CEREMONIES HONORS 95025X0 1 CREDIT
Prerequisites: Naval Science/Healthful Living I and Leadership, Drill and Ceremonies or NS-1 and at least two years ofsuccessful drill team
This course includes advanced leadership training, advanced level drill and ceremonies topics. Students will serve in leadership billets in the class and will assist with
the drill and ceremonies instruction. Emphasis will be on developing senior enlisted, junior officer and senior officer leadership skills. Topics of instruction include
leadership models, biographies, and the motivational dynamics of leadership taught through seminars and case studies. There will be required reading and writing
assignments in leadership focusing on the military and business models. This course will also focus on the applied aspects of drill and physical fitness. Cadets will be
required to function in student’s leadership billets.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 112
Mathematics Courses
The high school mathematics course ofstudy is based upon the NC Math Standards adopted by the North Carolina State Board of Education in June 2016. The standards
for the fourth math courses were revised and adopted in August 2019 and will be implemented in 2020-2021. The standards are divided into two equally important
parts: The Standards for Mathematical Practice and the Standards for Mathematical Content. The Practice Standards describe the characteristics and habits of mind
that all mathematically proficient students exhibit. The Standards for Mathematical Practice are:
1. Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.
2. Reason abstractly and quantitatively.
3. Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
4. Model with mathematics.
5. Use appropriate toolsstrategically.
6. Attend to precision.
7. Look for and make use of structure.
8. Look for and expressregularity in repeated reasoning.
The Practice Standards will be applied throughout each course and, together with the Content Standards, will ensure that students experience mathematics as a
coherent, useful, and logical subject.
The Standards for Mathematical Content for high school are divided into six conceptual categories: Number and Quantity, Algebra, Functions, Modeling, Geometry,
and Statistics and Probability.
In order to graduate from the Wake County Public School System, a student must earn a minimum of four credits in mathematics. More information on typical math
course sequences can be found at Math Sequences. Please note that this document does not include every possible path. Please talk with your school counselor about
which path is best for you / your student.
INTRODUCTORY MATHEMATICS (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 20202X0 1 CREDIT
Introductory Math provides learners with an opportunity to review and study foundational topics for higher-level mathematics. Topics include simplifying expressions
and solving one-variable equations and inequalities; one-variable statistics; different representation of functions; linear functions; the Pythagorean theorem; volume;
solving systems of linear equations; graphing line of best fit; and operations with polynomials. Students will solve relevant and authentic problems using manipulatives
and appropriate technology.
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 1 (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 20902X0 1 CREDIT
NOTE: This course should be paired with NC Math 1B (21092X0B)
The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. In conjunction with NC Math 1B, this course deepens
and extends understanding of linear relationships, in part by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to
data that exhibit a linear trend. In addition to studying bivariate data,students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable.
The geometry standards that appear in this course formalize and extend students’ geometric experiences to explore more complex geometric situations and deepen
their explanations of geometric relationships, moving towardsformal mathematical arguments. The Standardsfor Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course
and, together with the content standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to
make sense of problem situations.
NC MATH 1B 21092X0B 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Foundations ofNC Math 1A
Note: This course should be paired with Foundations of NC Math 1A (20902X0)
The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. This course deepens and extends understanding of
linear relationships, in part by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to data that exhibit a linear trend.
In addition to studying bivariate data, students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable. The geometry standards that
appear in this course formalize and extend students’ geometric experiences to explore more complex geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric
relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content
standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations.
This course fulfillsthe North Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC Math 1. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math
1 Standards.
NC MATH 1 21092X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Mastery of the middle school mathematics curriculum
The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. This course deepens and extends understanding of
linear relationships, in part by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to data that exhibit a linear trend.
In addition to studying bivariate data, students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable. The geometry standards that
appear in this course formalize and extend students’ geometric experiences to explore more complex geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric
relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content
standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations.
This course fulfillsthe North Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC Math 1. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math
1 Standards.
NC MATH 1 HONORS 21095X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Mastery of the middle school mathematics curriculum
The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. This course deepens and extends understanding of
linear relationships, in part by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to data that exhibit a linear trend.
In addition to studying bivariate data, students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable. The geometry standards that
appearin this course formalize and extend students’ geometric experiences to explore more complex geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 113
relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content
standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations.
Honors NC Math 1 explores content at a highly rigorouslevel to begin students’ preparation for advanced math courses. Students are expected to be able to appropriately
explain and justify their solution process through both verbal and written formats. This course fulfills the North Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC
Math 1. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math 1 Standards.
MATH PLUS HONORS (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 28005X0L 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Marginal proficiency in NC Math 1 in 8th grade
Math Plus deepens the understanding of mathematical concepts covered in NC Math 1 to ensure that students are successful in future math courses. Students will be
exposed to the content of NC Math 1 to reinforce crucial skills needed for Honors level courses. Students will also preview content for Honors NC Math 2.
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 2 (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 20912X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Marginal proficiency in NC Math 1
Foundations of NC Math 2 provideslearners with an opportunity to review and study foundational topicsfor higher-level mathematics. The topics covered will be based
on student needs and will be aligned with NC Math 2. Students will solve relevant and authentic problems using manipulatives and appropriate technology.
NC MATH 2 22092X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 1
In NC Math 2, students continue to deepen their study of quadratic expressions, equations, and functions, comparing their characteristics and behavior to those of
linear and exponential relationships from NC Math 1. The concept of quadratics is generalized with the introduction of higher degree polynomials. New methods for
solving quadratic equations are developed. The characteristics of advanced types of functions are investigated (including inverse variation and square root functions).
The link between probability and data is explored through conditional probability and counting methods. Students explore more complex geometric situations and
deepen their explanations of geometric relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. Important differences exist between NC Math 2 and the
historical approach taken in Geometry classes. For example, transformations are explored early in the course and provide the framework for studying geometric
concepts such as similarity and congruence. The study of similarity leads to an understanding of right triangle trigonometry and connects to quadratics through
Pythagorean relationships. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content standards, require that students
experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations. This course fulfills the North
Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC Math 2.
NC MATH 2 HONORS 22095X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 1
In NC Math 2, students continue to deepen their study of quadratic expressions, equations, and functions, comparing their characteristics and behavior to those of
linear and exponential relationships from NC Math 1. The concept of quadratics is generalized with the introduction of more sophisticated polynomials. New methods
for solving quadratic and exponential equations are developed. The characteristics of more advanced types of functions are investigated (including inverse variation
and square root functions). The link between probability and data is explored through conditional probability and counting methods. Students explore more complex
geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. Important differences exist between
NC Math 2 and the historical approach taken in Geometry classes. For example, transformations are explored early in the course and provide the framework forstudying
geometric concepts such as similarity and congruence. The study of similarity leads to an understanding of right triangle trigonometry and connects to quadratics
through Pythagorean relationships. Honors NC Math 2 explores content at a rigorous level to students’ preparation for advanced math courses. The Standards for
Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful,
and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations. This course fulfills the North Carolina high school graduation requirement for
NC Math 2.
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 3 (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 20922X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Marginal proficiency in NC Math 2
Foundations of NC Math 3 provideslearners with an opportunity to review and study foundational topicsfor higher-level mathematics. The topics covered will be based
on student needs and will be aligned with NC Math 3. Students will solve relevant and authentic problems using manipulatives and appropriate technology.
NC MATH 3 23092X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 2
This course is designed so that students have the opportunity to pull together and apply the accumulation of mathematics concepts learned previously. They apply
methodsfrom probability and statisticsto draw inferences and conclusionsfrom data. Students expand their repertoire of functionsto include logarithmic, polynomial,
rational, absolute value, piecewise, and trigonometric functions, including an intense study of families of functions and the relationships therein. They expand their
study of right triangle trigonometry to include the study of trigonometric functions to model simple periodic phenomena. Finally, students bring together all their
experience with functions and geometry to create models and solve contextual problems. Appropriate technology and tools, including manipulatives and calculators,
will be used regularly forinstruction and assessment. The Standard for Mathematical Practice appliesthroughout each course and, together with the contentstandards,
require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that means use of their ability to make sense of problems and situations. This
course fulfills the North Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC Math 3. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math 3
Standards.
NC MATH 3 HONORS 23095X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors NC Math 2
This course is designed so that students have the opportunity to pull together and apply the accumulation of mathematics concepts learned previously. They apply
methodsfrom probability and statisticsto draw inferences and conclusions from data. Students expand their repertoire of functions to include logarithmic, polynomial,
rational, absolute value, piecewise, and trigonometric functions, including an intense study of families of functions and the relationships therein. They expand their
study of right triangle trigonometry to include the study of trigonometric functions to model simple periodic phenomena. Finally, students bring together all their
experience with functions and geometry to create models and solve contextual problems. Honors NC Math 3 explores content at a rigorous level to prepare students
for advanced math courses. Appropriate technology and tools, including manipulatives and calculators, will be used regularly for instruction and assessment. The
Standard for Mathematical Practice applies throughout each course and, together with the content standards, require that students experience mathematics as a
coherent, useful, and logical subject that means use of their ability to make sense of problems and situations. This course fulfills the North Carolina high school
graduation requirement for NC Math 3. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math 3 Standards.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 114
CCRG MATH 20132X0 1 CREDIT
This course is a survey of the fundamentalskills required for freshman level/gateway college math courses. Demonstration of mastery of the skillsin the course permits
the student to have higher placement in community college courses and better preparation for university courses. The course topics include number sense, graphing,
functions, geometry, and statistics.
MATH COURSES BEYOND NC MATH 3
The following mathematics courses are accepted as the 4th level mathematics course required for graduation under the Future Ready Core. With the exception of AP
Computer Science, all the courses listed below are accepted as the fourth math for admission to UNC System Institutions. If interested, see your counselor to discuss
Community College mathematics course options that also meet graduation requirements and minimum admission requirements for UNC System institutions. Students
wishing to attend non-UNC System colleges, a community college, or a technical school should check with the postsecondary institution for minimum admission
requirements. If interested, see your counselor to discuss CTE course options that can also count as the 4th math credit needed for graduation.
NC MATH 4 24092X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 3
The primary focus of this course is on functions and statistical thinking, continuing the study of algebra, functions, trigonometry and statistical concepts previously
experienced in NC Math 1-3. The course is designed to be a capstone to introductory statistical concepts. Additionally, the course intentionally integrates conceptsfrom
algebra and functions to demonstrate the close relationship between algebraic reasoning as applied to the characteristics and behaviors of more complex functions. In
many cases, undergraduate students majoring in non-STEM fields will take an entry-level Algebra or Introductory Statistics course. Students will be prepared for college
level algebra and statistics or as a bridge to prepare students for Precalculus or other advanced math courses. This course is accepted as the fourth math for admission
to UNC System institutions.
NC MATH 4 HONORS 24095X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors NC Math 3
The primary focus of this course is on functions and statistical thinking, continuing the study of algebra, functions, trigonometry and statistical concepts previously
experienced in NC Math 1-3. The course is designed to be a capstone to introductory statistical concepts. Additionally, the course intentionally integrates conceptsfrom
algebra and functions to demonstrate the close relationship between algebraic reasoning as applied to the characteristics and behaviors of more complex functions. In
many cases, undergraduate students majoring in non-STEM fields will take an entry-level Algebra or Introductory Statistics course. Students will be prepared for college
level algebra and statistics or as a bridge to prepare students for Precalculus or other advanced math courses. This course is accepted as the fourth math for admission
to UNC System institutions.
AP PRECALCULUS 2A047X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors NC Math 3
In AP Precalculus, students will explore everyday situations using mathematical tools and lenses. They will learn how to observe, explore, and build mathematical
meaning from dynamic systems, an important practice for thriving in an ever-changing world. Students willstudy each function type through their graphical, numerical,
verbal, and analytical representations and their applications in a variety of contexts. Additionally, students apply their understanding of functions by constructing and
validating appropriate function models for scenarios, sets of conditions, and data sets, thereby gaining a deeper understanding of the nature and behavior of each
function type. This course is designed for students pursuing careers in STEM-related fields and will prepare students for higher level mathematics and science courses.
It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam. This course is accepted as the fourth math for admission to UNC System
institutions.
DISCRETE MATHEMATICS FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE HONORS 24015X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors NC Math 4 or Precalculus
The purpose of this course is to introduce discrete structures that are the backbone of computer science. Discrete mathematics is the study of mathematical structures
that are countable or otherwise distinct and separable. The mathematics of modern computer science is built almost entirely on discrete mathematics, such as logic,
combinatorics, proof, and graph theory. At most universities, an undergraduate-level course in discrete mathematicsisrequired forstudents who plan to pursue careers
as computer programmers, software engineers, data scientists, security analysts and financial analysts. Students will be prepared for college level algebra, statistics,
and discrete mathematics courses.
AP STATISTICS 2A037X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors NC Math 3, NC Math 4, NC Math 4 Honors or Precalculus
The AP Statistics curriculum is divided into four major themes: exploratory analysis, planning a study, probability, and statistical inference. This is a college-level course.
Use of computers and graphing calculators play an important role in this course. For each session of classroom instruction, the student is expected to spend, as a
minimum, an equal amount of time outside the classroom for review, written assignments, and preparation. It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take
the College Board AP Exam. This course is accepted as the fourth math for admission to UNC System institutions.
AP CALCULUS: AB 2A007X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Mastery of the Precalculus curriculum
The AP Calculus curriculum includes limits, continuity, derivatives with applications, and elementary integration with applications. This is a college-level course. Use of
computers and graphing calculators play an important role in this course. For each session of classroom instruction the student is expected to spend, as a minimum, an
equal amount of time outside the classroom for review, written assignments, and preparation. It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College
Board AP Exam. This course is accepted as the fourth math for admission to UNC System institutions.
AP CALCULUS: BC 2A017X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AP Calculus AB
The BC level of AP Calculus revisitssome topics introduced in the AB course. Topicsinclude differentials, integrals, infinite series, and differential equations. In addition,
the curriculum for this course includes convergence and divergence of sequences and series, parametric representation of curves, polar curves, and additional
integration techniques. This is a college-level course. Use of computers and graphing calculators play an important role in this course. For each session of classroom
instruction, the student is expected to spend, as a minimum, an equal amount of time outside the classroom for review, written assignments, and preparation. It is
expected thatstudents enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam. This course is accepted asthe fourth math for admission to UNC System institutions.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 115
MATHEMATICS ELECTIVE COURSES BEYOND MATH 3
The following mathematics elective courses do not count asthe 4th math required for graduation.
MATHEMATICAL ANALYSIS HONORS 28005X0J 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): AP Calculus BC
This course is designed for students who wish to extend their study of mathematics beyond AP Calculus BC. Topics include applications of partial derivatives; vectors;
multiple integrals; vectors; multiple integrals; higher order differential equations; and basics of numerical analysis. This is a college-level course. Use of computers and
graphing calculators play an important role in this course. For each session of classroom instruction, the student is expected to spend, as a minimum, an equal amount
of time outside the classroom for review, written assignments, and preparation.
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A 2A027X0 1 CREDIT
This is a college-level introductory course in computer science. Because the design and implementation of computer programs to solve problems involves skills that
are fundamental to the study of computer science, a large part of the course is built around the development of computer programs that correctly solve a given
problem. These programs should be understandable, adaptable, and when appropriate, reusable. At the same time, the design and implementation of computer
programs is used as a context for introducing other important aspects of computer science, including the development and analysis of algorithms, the development
and use of fundamental data structures, the study of standard algorithms and typical applications, and the use of logic and formal methods. In addition, the
responsible use of these systems is an integral part of the course. The course is designed to be the equivalent of a first-semester college course in computer science.
Mathematics is reinforced throughout the course. Work-based learning strategies appropriate for this course include apprenticeship, cooperative education,
entrepreneurship, internship, mentorship, school-based enterprise, service learning, and job shadowing. Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) competitive
events, community service, and leadership activities provide the opportunity to apply essential standards and workplace readiness skills through authentic
experiences. Further information about the course and the AP Computer Science Exam can be found at https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computerscience-a Note: AP Computer Science is not accepted as the fourth math for admission to UNC System institutions.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 116
Science Courses
Previous performance in science courses and teacherrecommendation should be considered in course selection.
BIOLOGY
INTRODUCTION TO THE PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY 30202X0A 1 CREDIT
This course introducesstudentsto the major guiding principles of Biology – structures & processes of organisms, ecosystems, heredity, and biological evolution. Content
material will be presented with an emphasis on project-based learning, literacy, and the 4 C’s (communication, critical thinking, creativity, and collaboration). Students
will develop analytical skills through the interpretation of scientific data and the incorporation of other research to support their arguments. This course is designed to
precede the standard Biology course.
BIOLOGY 33202X0 1 CREDIT
BIOLOGY HONORS 33205X0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to develop student understanding of biological concepts and principles and promote an understanding of plant and animal processes from the
cellular to the multi-cellular level. Laboratory work is an important part of each phase of the course. The honors course is taught in greater depth and magnitude. The
final exam is the North Carolina Biology End- of-Course Test.
AP BIOLOGY 3A007X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Biology/Honors Biology and Chemistry/Honors Chemistry
(Important Note: Students without a valid Biology EOC score or code will be expected to participate in the State EOC administration when enrolling in AP or IB
Biology.)
Students study the basic principles and concepts covered in an introductory “General Biology” college-level course. Topics include the structure and function of cells
and organisms, the organization, requirements and development of living systems, and heredity and evolution. Students are provided in-depth laboratory experiences.
It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam.
MARINE ECOLOGY 35352X0A 1 CREDIT
MARINE ECOLOGY HONORS 35355X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Biology
The interrelationships among marine organisms and the physical, chemical, geological, and biological factors in their environment are the focus of this course. The
importance of the marine environment to life on earth is stressed. North Carolina's coastal processes are studied in detail. Laboratory and field experiences are major
components of the course. The honors course is taught in greater depth and magnitude.
PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN INHERITANCE 30202X0J 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite: Biology
PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN INHERITANCE HONORS 30205X0D 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite(s): Biology and completed or concurrent enrollment in Chemistry
This course is designed to examine the transmission of traits from generation to generation with an emphasis on patterns of inheritance in humans. Students will study
issues generated by biotechnology and how new technology is transforming research, industry, agriculture and our everyday lives, from the medical tests we take to
the food we eat.
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY 33302X0 1 CREDIT
ANATOMYAND PHYSIOLOGY HONORS 33305X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Biology
This course provides the student with a general study of the structure of the human body and a detailed study of the functions of the body systems. Laboratory work
includes anatomical studies of mammals such as fetal pigs and cats.
CHEMISTRY
CHEMISTRY 34202X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 3 or concurrent enrollment in NC Math 3
CHEMISTRY HONORS 34205X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Honors Math 3 or concurrent enrollment in Honors Math 3
Chemistry is the study of the composition and properties of matter. It introduces the theories concerning the structure of matter and includes mathematical problems
that illustrate these theories. Concepts and principles of chemistry are presented in great depth and at a rapid pace. Theoretical and mathematical relationships in
chemistry are studied. Students perform extensive research, independent study, and laboratory work. Laboratory experiences and demonstrations are integral parts
of this course.
AP CHEMISTRY 3A017X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 3 and Chemistry/Honors Chemistry
The AP Chemistry course provides students with a college-level foundation to support future advanced coursework in chemistry. Students cultivate their understanding
of chemistry through inquiry-based investigations, as they explore content such as: atomic structure, intermolecular forces and bonding, chemical reactions, kinetics,
thermodynamics, and equilibrium. The AP Chemistry course is designed to be the equivalent of the general chemistry course usually taken during the first college year.
It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam.
EARTH SCIENCE
EARTH SCIENCE/ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE 35012X0 1 CREDIT
EARTH SCIENCE/ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE HONORS 35015X0 1 CREDIT
Students are provided an in-depth study of the earth processes including plate tectonics, rock and mineral formation, and landforms. The course focuses on inquiry
into the functions of the earth's systems. Emphasis is placed on matter, energy, coastal dynamics, environmental awareness, materials availability, and the cycles that
circulate energy and material through the earth systems. Laboratory work is a major component of the course.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 117
ASTRONOMY 35402X0 1 CREDIT
ASTRONOMY HONORS 35405X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite(s): Earth Science /Environmental Science
The underlying principles of life, earth, and physical science are integrated in this study of the universe. Historical astronomy, the solar system, comets, constellations,
extraterrestrial life, and the evolution of stars are the major topics of study. Observational astronomy skills and critical thinking are fostered using laboratory and field
activities.
INTRODUCTION TO METEOROLOGY 30202X0L 1 CREDIT
INTRODUCTIONTO METEOROLOGY HONORS 30205X0L 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite(s): Earth Science /Environmental Science
This course focuses on inquiry into atmospheric conditions. Emphasis is placed on weather patterns, cycles of energy, interpreting and analyzing weather models,
surface conditions, pollution, upper-air conditions, weather mapping, and climatological patterns. Laboratory work is a major component of this course.
AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE 3A027X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisites: Successful completion of two years of high school laboratory science
The AP Environmental Science course is designed to be the equivalent of an introductory college course in environmental science. The goal of the AP Environmental
Science course is to provide students with the scientific principles, concepts, and methodologies required to understand the interrelationships of the natural world, to
identify and analyze environmental problems both natural and human-made, to evaluate risks associated with these problems, and to examine alternative solutions
for resolving and/or preventing them. It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam.
PHYSICAL SCIENCE
PHYSICAL SCIENCE 34102X0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed as an entry-level course. The concepts of physics and chemistry are taught using both laboratory approaches and inquiry teaching. Students use
their mathematical skills in the applications of science. Science projects and other independent student research provide students with a better understanding of the
processes of science.
PHYSICS
PHYSICS 34302X0 1 CREDIT
PHYSICS HONORS 34305X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 3 or concurrent enrollment in NC Math 3
Students develop a general understanding of the mathematical and motion-oriented study of matter and energy. Mechanics, heat, light, electricity, magnetism, gravity,
and nuclear energy are the major topics of study. Students who wish to study these topics in detail should take Honors Physics. Honors Physics is the in-depth
mathematical and motion-oriented study of matter and energy. It provides an understanding of the physical principles and laws dealing with mechanics, heat, light,
electromagnetism, and nuclear energy. Students are provided various laboratory experiences that are designed to enhance and reinforce concepts and principles in
physics.
AP PHYSICS I-ALGEBRA BASED 3A057X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite(s): Completed Math 3 and be comfortable with algebraic manipulation and right triangle trigonometry
AP PhysicsI is equivalentto a first-semester college course in algebra-based physics. The course covers Newtonian mechanics(including rotational dynamics and angular
momentum): work, energy, and power; and mechanical waves and sound. It also introduces electric circuits.
PhysicsI: unlike AP Physics B, which recommends a prior high school physics course, no prior course work in physicsis necessary forstudentsto enroll in AP PhysicsI.
AP PHYSICS II –ALGEBRA BASED 3A067X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite(s): AP PhysicsI, completed or concurrent enrollment in Precalculus or equivalent
AP PhysicsII is equivalentto a second-semester college course in algebra-based physics. The course coversfluid mechanics;thermodynamics; electricity and magnetism;
optics; and atomic and nuclear physics.
AP PHYSICS C: MECHANICS 3A047X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Calculus AB and honors or AP Physics 1
This course should provide instruction in each of the following six content areas: kinematics; Newton’slaw of motion; work, energy and power;systems of particles and
linear momentum; circular motion and rotation; and oscillation and gravitation.
AP PHYSICS C: ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM 3A037X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Calculus AB and AP Physics C: Mechanics, corequisite: Calculus BC
This course should provide instruction in each of the following five content areas: electrostatics; conductors, capacitors and dielectrics; electric circuits; magnetic fields;
and electromagnetism.
ADDITIONAL SCIENCE COURSES
FORENSIC SCIENCE 30202X0D 1 CREDIT
FORENSIC SCIENCE HONORS 30205X0A 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Successful completion of Biology and Chemistry
In this course students will be examining the role of the forensic scientist. Students will experience the application of the pure sciences as they examine the evidence
of various forensic situations. The concepts and principles are presented in great depth and at a rapid pace. The classroom activities will include traditional and
modern biotechnological techniques.
FORENSIC SCIENCE 2 HONORS 30205X0A2 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Successful completion of Biology and Chemistry
This course is intended as a continuation of the current Forensic Science course offering. The units of study will have a natural flow, the scope and depth of the course
will be differentiated from Forensic Science 1 in the topics covered, complexity and expectation of student work products. In this course, students will be examining
the role of the forensic scientist. Students will experience the application of the pure sciences as they examine the evidence of various forensic situations including
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 118
crimes, negligence, and accidents. The concepts and principles are presented in great depth and at a rapid pace. The classroom activities will include traditional and
modern biotechnological techniques, and evaluation of novel academic research.
RESEARCH METHODS AND TECHNIQUES 30202X0G 1 CREDIT
RESEARCH METHODS AND TECHNIQUES HONORS 30205X0E 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): NC Math 1 and Biology
This course provides extended, hands-on experience with tools, materials, and techniques used in biological, agricultural, and physicalscience research and application.
Instruction includes appropriate methods for experimental design and implementation, data collection, and presentation of results. The honors level course affords
students the opportunity to participate in advanced scientific research and scholarship. Students may do research in biology, chemistry, and the physical sciences.
Instruction includes current methods for scientific research and experimental design.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 119
Social Studies Courses
Previous performance in Social Studies courses and teacherrecommendation should be considered in course selection.
REQUIRED SOCIAL STUDIES COURSES
WORLD HISTORY 43032X0 1 CREDIT
WORLD HISTORY HONORS 43035X0 1 CREDIT
World History is designed to be a historicalstudy ofsocieties, nations, economies, events, and cultures of the many regions of the world, providing historical background
for each area and details inclusive of change over time, historical impact, religion, diplomacy, culture practices and beliefs, and economic, political, and social
institutions. The course is intended to examine the historical development of the world and global issues and patterns since 1200. The course also explores underlying
themes of power and authority; change and continuity; human-environment interaction; globalization; cultural diffusion; and individual and group identity.
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY 43182X0 1 CREDIT
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY HONORS 43185X0 1 CREDIT
This course provides students the opportunity for a deeper study of the governmental and political systems of the N.C. and the U.S. and will build upon the application
of the Founding Principles. This course will allow students to examine the ways in which power and responsibility are both shared and limited by the U.S. Constitution
and how the judicial, legal, and political systems of North Carolina and the United States embody the founding principles of government. Students in this course will
analyze and evaluate the extent to which the American system of government guarantees, protects, and upholds the rights of citizens as well as how it has evolved
overtime.
AMERICAN HISTORY 43112X0 1 CREDIT
AMERICAN HISTORY HONORS 43115X0 1 CREDIT
This course will explore the overarching themes, trends, and concepts of our nation’s history, including the development and evolution of the American system of
government, the patterns and impact of migration and immigration, cultural development through the arts and technological innovations, relationships with foreign
nations, and the role of both the individual and diverse groups in building the American story. The American History course will begin with the end of the French and
Indian War (1763) and end through the latest Presidential Election (i.e. 2020, 2024, etc.).
ECONOMICS & PERSONAL FINANCE 43192X0 1 CREDIT
ECONOMICS & PERSONAL FINANCE HONORS 43195X0 1 CREDIT
The Economics and Personal Finance (EPF) course is intended to be a study of economics, personal finance, income and education, money management, critical
consumerism, and financial planning. Mastery of the standards and objectives of this course will inform and nurture responsible, participatory citizens who are
competent and committed to responsible money management and financial literacy.
SOCIAL STUDIES ELECTIVES
21ST CENTURY GLOBAL GEOGRAPHY 45052X0 1 CREDIT
21ST CENTURY GLOBAL GEOGRAPHY HONORS 45055X0 1 CREDIT
This geography course will emphasize the increasing interconnectedness of the Earth’s people due to globalization and spatial variation. While the origins of
globalization are debatable, this process has been significantly amplified with the onset of the new communication technologiesthat have improved economic, political,
social, cultural, historic, and geographic connection among individuals, groups, and nations. Students will learn about the awareness of how the positive or negative
possibilities of these connections are paramount to individual improvement and the advancement of humanity.
AFRICANAMERICANSTUDIES 46012X0 1 CREDIT
AFRICANAMERICANSTUDIES HONORS 46015X0 1 CREDIT
This conceptually driven course introduces students to the exploration of the rich and diverse history and culture of African Americans. The goal of this course is to
broaden the knowledge and understanding of students interested in learning about the histories, cultures, and economic, geographic, and political realities of African
Americans. This course will provide students with an opportunity to engage with the social, economic, and political activities of African Americans in a way that allows
them to make deep connections across the content.
CONVERSATIONS IN DIVERSITY 48002X0E 1 CREDIT
CONVERSATIONS IN DIVERSITY HONORS 48005X0E 1 CREDIT
This course offers the opportunity to explore and reflect on a variety of perspectives on current domestic and global social problems. The structure and content of this
course will allow critical thinking, dialogue, and examination of bias, prejudice, discrimination, and oppression. Through formal and informal discussion, individual
exploration, research, reading, and writing, students will gain an appreciation for diversity, to promote awareness and social change.
HOLOCAUST AND GENOCIDE STUDIES 48032X0 1 CREDIT
HOLOCAUST AND GENOCIDE STUDIES HONORS 48035X0 1 CREDIT
History of various genocides and holocausts is explored in this course reviewing attempts at wiping out groups based upon religious, racial and national origins.
Participants will learn the impact of severe prejudice and persecution to understand the nature of civilization itself and focus on prevention strategies for future
genocide and dehumanization. The World War II Holocaust as well as recent 20th century genocides such as Armenia, Rwanda, Cambodia, Sudan, and Darfur will be
explored. Students will complete substantial reading, writing and research. Taking this course after successful completion of World History is recommended.
CONTEMPORARY LAW AND JUSTICE 48002X0J 1 CREDIT
CONTEMPORARY LAW AND JUSTICE HONORS 48005X0J 1 CREDIT
This course focuses on the legal, judicial, law enforcement and corrections systems of the United States. Examined are relevant examples of civil and criminal laws, lawenforcement methods, court procedures, and efforts toward corrective justice. Students also examine problems within the legal and justice systems.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 120
LESSONS OF THE VIETNAM WAR/RECENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 48002X0D 1 CREDIT
LESSONS OF THE VIETNAM WAR/RECENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HONORS 48005X0D 1 CREDIT
The first half of this course focuses on the Vietnam War and related issues. Topics include geography, history, and culture of Vietnam; the ethical questions that arose
during the conflict; the events of the social protest movement; worldwide response and involvement in Vietnam; problems of Vietnamese refugees and U.S. veterans;
and Vietnam today. The second half is designed as a study of the major trends and issues in the post-World War II era with an insight into the growing interdependence
of nations of the world. Emphasis is placed on the decision-making process of the United States in the field of foreign affairs. Recent problems, policies, and programs
of the United States are analyzed.
PSYCHOLOGY HONORS 44035X0 1 CREDIT
This full-credit honors course is designed to give students an understanding of psychology as a science. Students are introduced to psychology, with a focus on the
scientific study of human development, learning, motivation, and personality. This course emphasizesthe empirical examination of behavior and mental processes, and
it infuses perspectives fostering students' growth, development, and understanding of cultural diversity. Students of psychology acquire information from a variety of
sources, use information asthey make decisions and evaluations, and solve problems. The study of psychology enablesstudents to recognize and cope with uncertainty
and ambiguity in human behavior.
RELIGIONS IN WORLD CULTURES/THE BIBLE IN HISTORY 48002X0A 1 CREDIT
RELIGIONS IN WORLD CULTURES/THE BIBLE IN HISTORY HONORS 48005X0G 1 CREDIT
This course is a survey introducing students to religious expression across cultures and to the world religions of Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and
Chinese religions. Students will examine religious tenets, practices, responses, and institutions and their impact upon world history and contemporary life. Learners will
also explore primary religious texts and scriptures, including the Tanakh, the Bible, the Koran, the Bhagavad Gita, the Analects, the Tao Te Ching, and the Dhammapada,
and their impacts on religious traditions, adherents, and the modern world.
SOCIOLOGY HONORS 44005X0 1 CREDIT
Thisfull-credit honors course is designed to give studentsthe tools necessary to concentrate on the systematic study of human society and human interaction. Students
develop a sociological imagination in which they observe the connections between their personal lives within society, as well as public policy issues. Using observation,
the scientific method, and cross-cultural examination, students discover how patterns of behavior develop, culture is learned, and social predictions are made.
SOCIOLOGY/ PSYCHOLOGY 48002X0B 1 CREDIT
This course provides an overview in the areas of Sociology and Psychology as a combined full-credit elective. Sociology givesstudents a general background of the major
aspects of sociology. Students study the basic forces of social relationships as they influence the values, behavior, and knowledge of man. This course promotes an
understanding of the way people develop an identity as individuals and as members of their societies and cultures. In Psychology, the story and growth of psychology
as a science are studied. Basic theories of learning, personality development, patterns of human behavior, heredity and environment, and mental health are analyzed.
ADVANCED PLACEMENT COURSES
AP COMPARATIVE GOVERNMENT & POLITICS 4A007X0 1 CREDIT
This course provides students with facts, concepts, and generalizations pertaining to world governments including those of Great Britain, France, Russia and China.
Students study the sources of public authority and political power, society and politics, the citizen and the state, political frameworks and change, classifying
governments and politics, problems in cross-cultural analyses, and other themes. Students will complete written analysis and interpretation of subject matter and
demonstrate abilities to compare political institutions and processes. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP MACROECONOMICS 4A037X0 1 CREDIT
This course provides students with a thorough understanding of the principles of economics that apply to an economic system. Students enrolled in this course area
expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP MICROECONOMICS 4A047X0 1 CREDIT
This course offers students a thorough understanding of the principles of economics that apply to the functions of individual decision makers, both consumers and
producers, within the economic system. Students enrolled in this course area expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP EUROPEAN HISTORY 4A017X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended Prerequisite (s): World History
The focus of this course is from the Renaissance and the Reformation to the post-World War II era. Emphasis is on three main themes: (1) political and diplomatic
developments, (2) intellectual and cultural continuity and change, and (3) economic and social developments. Substantial out-of-class reading, writing, and research
are expected. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY 4A027X0 1 CREDIT
AP Human Geography provides students with insight into contemporary developments of world cultures, politics, and economies, including an analysis of the impact
of the environment on the progress of world nations and regions. Students evaluate world events and data, write critically about world situations, and debate
controversial aspects of an interdependent world. Major units focus on the spatial nature of geography and perspectives, population patterns and processes, cultural
patterns and processes, political organization of space, agricultural and rural land use, consequences of industrialization and economic development, cities and urban
land use. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP PSYCHOLOGY 4A057X0 1 CREDIT
Students study the systematic and scientific study of the behavior and mental processes of human beings and other animals. Students are exposed to the psychological
facts, principles, and phenomena associated with each of the major subfields within psychology. The study of psychology enables students to recognize and cope with
uncertainty and ambiguity in human behavior. Substantial out-of-class reading, writing, and research are expected. Students enrolled in this course are expected to
take the College Board AP Exam.
AP US GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS 4A067X0 1 CREDIT
This course is a survey of the United States national politicalsystem. Students will examine the U.S. constitutional system, its historical development, and current trends
of the system with the goal to further skill development through a rigorous course of study. Assignments involve student reading, analysis, synthesis, writing, and
speaking. Lectures, current problems, and practices are frequently used. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 121
AP UNITED STATES HISTORY 4A077X0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to encourage students to become apprentice historians who can use historical facts and evidence in the service of creating deeper conceptual
understandings of critical developments in US history. The curriculum of the course centers around four types of historical thinking skills: chronological reasoning,
comparison and contextualization, crafting historical argumentsfrom historical evidence, and historical interpretation and synthesis. Students will explore seven themes
throughout this course: identity; work, exchange, and technology; people; politics and power; America in the world; environment and geography – physical and human;
and ideas, beliefs, and culture. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
AP WORLD HISTORY: MODERN 4A097X0 1 CREDIT
The course begins in 1200 CE, and students will begin the course with a study of civilizations in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Europe that are foundational to the
modern era. The course provides five themes that students explore throughout the course in order to make connections among historical developments in different
times and places: interaction between humans and the environment; development and interaction of cultures; state building, expansion, and conflict; creation,
expansion, and interaction of economic systems; and development and transformation of social structures. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the
College Board AP Exam.
AP AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES 4A107X0 1 CREDIT
This course allows students to explore key topics that extend from early African kingdoms to the ongoing challenges and achievements of the contemporary moment.
The course drawsfroma variety of fields; history, literature,the arts, geography,science, and law to explore the vital contributions and experiences ofAfrican Americans.
Given the interdisciplinary character of African American Studies, students in the course will develop skills across multiple fields with an emphasis on developing
historical, literary, visual and data analysis skills. This course foregrounds a study of the diversity of Black communities in the United States within the broader context
of Africa and the African diaspora. Students enrolled in this course are expected to take the College Board AP Exam.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 122
Special Education Courses
Enrollment in these coursesis dependent on goals and objectives written in the students’ Individual Education Program (IEP).
DIPLOMA COURSES
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE 96102X0K 1 CREDIT
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (9) 96102X0L 1 CREDIT
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (10) 96102X0M 1 CREDIT
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (11) 96102X0Q 1 CREDIT
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (12) 96102X0R 1 CREDIT
The Curriculum Assistance elective (CA) provides specially designed instruction for students who access the standard course of study. The primary focus of CA is to
provide specially designed instruction on students’ IEP goals, progress monitor IEP goals, and supportstudents in their general education classes. Curriculum Assistance
may provide a variety of self-advocacy, organizational or study skills dependent on the needs of the students enrolled in the class. Skills taught in CA may include how
to prioritize, organize, take notes, take tests, proofread, follow directions, and use reference materials. Literacy, Math and Writing skills are taught utilizing specially
designed instruction to target the goals identified within the students’ IEP goals.
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE RESOURCE HI 96102X0T 1 CREDIT
Thisis a language-based Curriculum Assistance (CA) designed specifically for hearing impaired students.
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE RESOURCE VI
Thisis Curriculum Assistance (CA) designed specifically for visually impaired students utilizing adaptive materials and assistive technology.
96102X0U 1 CREDIT
INDEPENDENT STUDY SKILLS 96102X0W 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Teacher recommendation
The student works independently in a special area of concentration determined by the student’sIEP goals and objectives.
INTRODUCTIONTOCOMMUNICATIONSKILLS (READING) 96102X0P 1 CREDIT
This program focuses on basic reading and writing skills. Assignments, materials, and lesson presentations are modified based on the student’s abilities. Areas of study
include phonological awareness, word recognition skills, vocabulary development, comprehension, fluency, spelling patterns, handwriting, and simple written
expression.
HIGH SCHOOL READING 96102X0SP 1 CREDIT
The high school reading course is designed for students who exhibit specific deficits in phonic decoding and word recognition as evidenced by diagnostic assessment.
Intensive, systematic, and explicit instruction will focus on the most basic to advanced phonics skills including spelling. Skills will be taught and practiced until
automaticity is achieved at which point fluency will be taught and practiced. Multi-sensory strategies for both reading and spelling may be used to aid in the learning
process. Additionally, the identification and meaning of prefixes, suffixes and roots will be addressed with more advanced learners. Pre and post tests, placement tests,
reading and spelling tests will be used to determine mastery as well as inform instruction.
MATH COURSE
Specially Designed Instruction to address documented Math needs as stated in the student’s IEP will be addressed through accommodations/modifications and
inclusive service delivery in the general education setting. Curriculum Assistance courses may support additional math needs to address student goals.
See the general education mathematics coursesfor more information on course content and type of credit received (elective or math).
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 123
OCCUPATIONAL COURSE OF STUDY
The Occupational Course of Study (OCS) is available for those students with disabilities who are specifically identified for the pathway. OCS follows the standard course
of study and meets the requirements for a NC HS diploma. OCS includes course work and requires the completion of 600 vocational training hours. OCS is intended to
meet the needs of a small population of students with disabilities and focuses on post-secondary vocational skills, employment and independent living. The
Occupational Course of study will be an appropriate alternative that is beyond the scope of services within the future ready core general education. Eligibility for
participation in the Occupational Course of Study is determined by the Individual Education Program (IEP) Team, which includesschool personnel,students, and parents.
EMPLOYMENT PREP I SCIENCE 9260BX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to introduce students to the fundamental attitudes, behaviors, and habits needed to obtain and maintain employment in their career choice
and make career advancements. Students participate in school-based learning activities including work ethic development, job-seeking skills, decision- making skills,
and self-management. Students are involved in on-campus vocational training activities such as school factories, work-based enterprises, hands- on vocational
training and the operation of small businesses. Formal career planning and development of knowledge regarding transition planning begins in this course and
continues throughout the strand of Employment Prep courses. Students will also begin their career portfolios and explore the six categories of employability skills.
EMPLOYMENT PREP II CITIZENSHIP 1A 9261BX0 1 CREDIT
EMPLOYMENT PREP II CITIZENSHIP 1B 9262BX0 1 CREDIT
This course emphasizes the development of skills generic to all careers including resource management, communication, interpersonal skills, technology, stamina,
endurance, safety, mobility, motor, teamwork, sensory, problem-solving, cultural diversity, information acquisition/management, and self- management. This course
focuses on providing students with a repertoire of basic skills that serve as a foundation for future career applications. Students expand their school-based learning
activities to include on-campus jobs and begin some work-based learning activities. Job seeking skills also continue to be refined. Students must schedule 2 periods.
Students will continue developing their career portfolios and begin to apply developing skillsfrom the six categories of employable skills.
EMPLOYMENT PREP III CITIZENSHIP 2A 9263BX0 1 CREDIT
EMPLOYMENT PREP III CITIZENSHIP 2B 9264BX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to allow students to continue the development and begin the application of skills learned in Employment Prep I and II. Work- based learning
activities are provided including community-based training, job shadowing, job sampling, internships, situational assessment, cooperative education, and
apprenticeships. These work-based activities allow students to apply employability skills to competitive employment settings and demonstrate the effectiveness of
their work personality. Multiple opportunities for leadership development and self-determination are provided. Students must schedule 2 periods. Students will
continue work on their career portfolios and begin to independently apply skills mastered from studying the six categories of employable skills.
EMPLOYMENT PREP IV MATH 9265BX0 1 CREDIT
This course gives students the opportunity to synthesize all the skills acquired in previous Employment Prep courses and apply them to their personal career choice.
This course allows students to solve work-related problems experienced in competitive employment, practice self-advocacy skills and master the theoretical practical
aspects of their career choice. Students finish completing the 225 hours of integrated competitive employment in a community setting required for successful
completion of the Occupational Course of Study. Students also develop a job placement portfolio that provides an educational and vocational record of their high school
experience. Students will also engage in Person Centered/Driven Planning, and explore Federal regulations associated with public health in addition to finalizing career
portfolios and transferring skills mastered from experience with the six categories of employability skills.
VOCATIONAL EXPERIENCE CAREER TRAINING 9610BX0A 1 CREDIT
This course assists students in special education to develop entry-level job skills and competencies. The competencies include student assessment, career exploration,
and employability skill development. After students identify job interests and develop job-seeking skills, they may be placed at a work site.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE ARTS
ENGLISH I 9210BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum exposesstudentsto content that is closely aligned with that of 9th grade English courses content. It focuses on the writing processto develop a product,
the development of an understanding of appropriate presentation skills, the use of a variety of strategies to comprehend texts, the identification of examples of
appropriate conventions in both written and spoken language, the analysis of cause-and-effect relationships, the understanding of literary elements, rhetorical
techniques, and informational text, and the application of research tools and techniques to selected topics.
ENGLISH II 9211BX0 1 CREDIT
This academic world literature course is designed for the student who aspiresto post-secondary community college or career experience. This class focuses on reading,
writing, speaking and listening, and language. Writing instruction at this level focuses on mechanical correctness, fluency, and structure.
ENGLISH III 9212BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum focuses on the understanding of literary and informational texts, the use of appropriate communication skills, the creation of written products through
the use of a template, the application of reading and comprehension strategies, the problem-solving process, cause and effect relationships to decision- making, and
informational research for employment, post-secondary education/training, and independent living settings.
ENGLISH IV 9213BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum focuses on the application of literary and informational texts, the evaluation of communication between various audiences, the creation of written
products without the use of a template, the application of reading comprehension strategies, the production of a plan to problem solve, the ability to attribute the
impact of cause and effect, the generation of a viewpoint based on the analysis of a situation, and the creation of informational products for use in employment, postsecondary education/training, and independent living domains
MATH
INTRODUCTION TO MATHEMATICS 9220BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum focuses on the understanding of rational numbers, the application of mathematical operations, the application of ratios, proportions, and percents to
solve problems, the use of two- and three-dimensional figures, the application of time and measurement skills, the application of algebraic properties, the
understanding of patterns and relationships, and the understanding of data in terms of graphical displays, measures of center, and range.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 124
NC MATH 1A (ELECTIVE CREDIT) 9610BX0E 1 CREDIT
NC Math 1A prepares students for the subsequent course, NC Math 1. Successful completion of both NC Math 1A and NC Math 1 will fulfill the NC Math 1 requirement.
Students will receive two credits: NC Math 1A as an elective credit and NC Math 1 as the NC Math 1 CREDIT. The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the
mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. In conjunction with NC Math 1, this course deepens and extends understanding of linear relationships, in part
by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to data that exhibit a linear trend. In addition to studying
bivariate data, students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable. The geometry standards that appear in this course
formalize and extend students’ geometric experiencesto explore more complex geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric relationships, moving
towards formal mathematical arguments. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content standards, require
that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations.
NC MATH 1 9225BX0 1 CREDIT
The purpose of this course is to formalize and extend the mathematics that students learned in the middle grades. This course deepens and extends understanding of
linear relationships, in part by contrasting them with exponential and quadratic phenomena, and in part by applying linear models to data that exhibit a linear trend.
In addition to studying bivariate data, students also summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable. The geometry standards that
appear in this course formalize and extend students’ geometric experiences to explore more complex geometric situations and deepen their explanations of geometric
relationships, moving towards formal mathematical arguments. The Standards for Mathematical Practice apply throughout each course and, together with the content
standards, require that students experience mathematics as a coherent, useful, and logical subject that makes use of their ability to make sense of problem situations.
This course fulfillsthe North Carolina high school graduation requirement for NC Math 1. The final exam is the North Carolina End-of-Course Test based on the NC Math
1 Standards.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 9222BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum focuses on personal financial management, independent living, state and local income taxes, wages and compensation, credit, types of insurance, and
the application of math skills to consumer practices.
SCIENCE
APPLIED SCIENCE 9231BX0 1 CREDIT
This curriculum focuses on the understanding of force and motion, of energy and its conversation, of electricity and magnetism, of the properties of matter, the
identification of uses and dangers of common chemicals, the positive and negative effects humans have on the environment, and the human body’s basic needs and
controlsystems.
BIOLOGY 9232BX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to develop student understanding of biological concepts and principles and promote an understanding of plant and animal processes from the
cellular to the multi-cellular level. Laboratory work is an important part of each phase of the course.
SOCIAL STUDIES
AMERICAN HISTORY I 9247BX0 1 CREDIT
This course will begin with the European exploration of the new world through Reconstruction. Students will examine the historical and intellectual origins of the United
States from European exploration and colonial settlement to the Revolutionary and Constitutional eras. Students will learn about the important political and economic
factorsthat contributed to the development of colonial America and the outbreak of the American Revolutions as well asthe consequences of the Revolution, including
the writing and key ideas of the U.S. Constitution.
AMERICAN HISTORY II 9248BX0 1 CREDIT
This course will guide students from the late nineteenth century time period through the early 21st century. Students will examine the political, economic, social, and
cultural development of the United States from the end of the Reconstruction era to present times. This course will trace the changes in the ethnic composition of
American society, the movement toward equal rights for racial minorities and women, and the role of the United States as a major world power.
AMERICAN HISTORY: FOUNDING PRINCIPLES, CIVICS AND ECONOMICS 9249BX0 1 CREDIT
This course provides a framework for understanding the basic tenets of American democracy, practices of American government as established by the United States
Constitution, basic concepts of American politics and citizenship and concepts in macro and microeconomics and personal finance. The essential standards of this
course are organized under three strands – Civics and Government, Personal Financial Literacy and Economics. The Civics and Government strand is framed to develop
students’ increased understanding of the institutions of constitutional democracy and the fundamental principles and values upon which they are founded, the skills
necessary to participate as effective and responsible citizens and the knowledge of how to use democratic procedures for making decisions and managing conflict. The
Economic and Personal Financial Literacy strands are framed to provide students with an understanding of the role economic factors play in making economic decisions,
the ability to reason logically about key economic issues and the knowledge and skills needed to manage personal financial resources effectively for lifetime financial
security. Taken together, these three strands should help to prepare students to become responsible and effective citizens in an interdependent world.
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY 9251BX0 1 CREDIT
Civic Literacy is the study and understanding of citizenship and government. Through the Inquiry-based C3 Framework, this one-semester course provides students
with a sound understanding of civic life, politics, and government, including a short history of government’s foundation and development in the United States of
America. Students learn how power and responsibility are shared and limited by the government, the impact American politics has on world affairs, law in the American
constitutional system, and the rights that the American government guarantees its citizens. Students also examine how the world is organized politically and how to be
an active participant in the American and global political systems. Students willstudy the foundations of American democracy and the origins of American government.
The roles of political parties, campaigns & elections, public opinion, and the media will be analyzed to determine their effects on the individual and all who call the
United States home.
ECONOMICS & PERSONAL FINANCE 43192X0 1 CREDIT
The standards and objectives in the Economics and Personal Finance course will provide students the opportunity to engage in intensive application of the skills,
concepts, processes, and knowledge gained in previous social studies courses and prepare them to be college, career, and civic ready.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 125
OCS COURSES TAKEN ON NCVPS
These courses combine the expertise of the online teacher with the special education methods and strategies of the face-to-face teacherto ensure appropriate mastery
of the curriculum standards for students participating in the OCS program.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 126
GRADUATION CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS (ECS)
Content Area For 9th Graders Entering in 2022-
2023
For 9th Graders Entering in 2021-
2022
For 9th Graders Entering in 2019-
2020
English 4 Credits
English/LA I-IV (9310AX0-9313AX0)
4 Credits
English/LA I-IV
(9310AX0-9313AX0)
4 Credits
Mathematics 4 Credits
Financial Management I (9322AX0),
Financial Management II (9323AX0),
NC Math 1 A (9324AX0), and NC
Math 1 B (9325AX0)
4 Credits
Financial Management I (9322AX0),
Financial Management II (9323AX0),
NC Math 1 A (9324AX0), and NC
Math 1 B (9325AX0)
4 Credits
Science 3 Credits
Applied Science, Biology A and
Biology B
3 Credits
Applied Science, Biology A and
Biology B
3 Credits
Social Studies 4 Credits
Economics and Personal
Finance(9344AX0), Founding
Principles of the USA and NC: Civic
Literacy(9346AX0), American
History(9345AX0), World
History(9347AX0)
4 Credits
Economics and Personal Finance
(9344AX0), American History I
(9342AX0), American History II
(9343AX0), Civics and Governance
(9340AX0)
3 Credits
Health & Physical
Education
1 Credit
Health & Physical Education
1 Credit
Health & Physical Education
1 Credit
Health & Physical Education
Electives 6 Credits
NC Vocational Preparation, NC
Health, Safety & Independent
Living, 4 additional courses from
Occupational Preparation and/or
CTE
6 Credits
NC Vocational Preparation, NC
Health, Safety & Independent
Living, 4 additional courses from
Occupational Preparation and/or
CTE
6 Credits
Minimum of two (2) and Maximum
six (6) elective credits must come
from Extended Content Elective
Courses: Vocational Preparation
and Health, Safety & Independent
Living.
B. Additional elective courses may
come from Occupational
Preparation I, II, III, IV or Career
Technical Education elective.
(Elective credits were non-specific
prior to 2019)
Total 22 Credits 22 Credits 21 Credits
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 127
CERTIFICATE COURSES: NC EXTENDED CONTENT STANDARDS
SKILLS IN INDEPENDENT LIVING 9610AX0C 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to assiststudentsin developing competencies in the following areas: money management, purchasing, cooking, laundry, cleaning, proper eating
habits, appropriate manners, grooming, transportation, and mobility.
VOCATIONAL EXPERIENCE 9610AX0A 1 CREDIT
This course for students in special education is to develop entry-level job skills and competencies. The competencies include student assessment, career exploration,
and employability skill development. After students identify job interests and develop job-seeking skills, they may be placed at a work site. Low Incidence Prerequisites
are: (1) work related behaviors, (2) employment adjustment.
EMPLOYMENT ADJUSTMENT 9610AX0E 1 CREDIT
Students participate in on-campusjobs based on IEP goalsto build job related skills.
WORK RELATED BEHAVIOR 9610AX0D 1 CREDIT
This curriculum concentrates on work related behaviors. The school setting environment is organized to promote independence and skill building. Students are assisted
in developing a sense of organization, dependability, speed, and quality of production as reflected in a student’s IEP.
SOCIALIZATION LEISURE SKILLS 9610AX0B 1 CREDIT
The socialization curriculum concentrates on work related behavior. The curriculum includes assuming the roles associated with the development of acceptable
manners, recognition and respect for authority, development ofself-responsibility, and appropriate expression of emotions. Activities are related to actual experiences.
Concepts lead to the student’s recognition of himself as a valuable asset to society. The purpose of leisure education is to assist students in developing the skills
necessary to enjoy leisure time with opportunities for learning about leisure, developing leisure skills, and practicing the skills in actual leisure environments.
NC ELECTIVE HLTH, SAFETY, IND. LIVING 9390AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to make available functional life skills that students require to effectively support participation in curricula, community and recreational/leisure
activities.
NC VOCATIONAL PREPARATION 9391AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to allow exploration of interest and skills for postsecondary employment opportunities. Students learn necessary skills that will allow them
essential components for workplace readiness and career preparation.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION 60292X0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to help students receiving special education services develop physical and social skills. The student learns to understand and accept limitations:
correct problems where possible, develop skills in sports and games suitable to limitations, and develop knowledge and appreciation of body mechanics.
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS I 9310AX0 1 CREDIT
This academic course focuses on the development of skills needed for communication and comprehension in functional reading and writing. Emphasis is on enabling
the student to interact with his environment independently to the extent of his abilities.
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS II 9311AX0 1 CREDIT
This academic course focuses on further development ofskills needed for communication and comprehension in functional reading and writing.
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS III 9312AX0 1 CREDIT
This academic course provides development of skills and understanding of functional reading and writing as it pertains to the student’s interaction with his/her
environment in a variety of prevocational/vocational settings.
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS IV 9313AX0 1 CREDIT
This academic course provides further development of the skills and understanding of functional reading and writing as it pertains to the student’s independent
interaction with his/her environment in a variety of vocational settings to the extent of his/her abilities.
MATH
NC MATH 1A 9324AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand and demonstrate number and quantity by using unit rate to identify quantities, extending the base ten system to
tenths and hundredths place, and computing with base ten system to tenths and hundredths place.
NC MATH 1B 9325AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand and demonstrate seeing structures in systems, creating equations, and reasoning with equations and inequalities
equivalent expressions, understanding inequalities and solving equations/inequalities.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT I 9322AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand the difference between wants and needs, that money comes from working, and appropriate methods for personal
financial management and independent living.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT II 9323AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to apply budgeting skills, learn appropriate methods for personal financial management and independent living, and apply math
skills to consumer spending.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 128
SCIENCE
APPLIED SCIENCE 9231AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand and apply safety measures and procedures in a variety of situations in the community and home, apply skills
associated with providing simple first aid and obtaining medical treatment when needed and apply the skills needed to practice healthful living and good nutrition.
BIOLOGYA 9332AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand the structures and functions of living organisms and understand how living things interact with and within their
environments.
BIOLOGY B 9333AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand the impact of human activities on the environment and interdependence of living organisms within their
environments.
SOCIAL STUDIES
CIVICS AND GOVERNANCE I 9340AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand individual rights and the common good, the impact of government on society and individuals, and understand
citizenship.
CIVICS AND GOVERNANCE II 9341AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand the creation and development of the United States over time using chronological thinking and historical
comprehension.
AMERICAN HISTORY I 9342AX0 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for students to understand the creation and development of the United States over time using historical research and historical analysis and
interpretation.
ECONOMICS AND PERSONAL FINANCE 9344AX0 1 CREDIT
The Extended Economics and Personal Finance (EPF) course is intended to be a study of economics, personal finance, income and education, money management,
critical consumerism, and financial planning.
AMERICAN HISTORY 9345AX0 1 CREDIT
This course will explore the overarching themes, trends, and concepts of our nation’s history, including the development and evolution of the American system of
government, the patterns and impact of migration and immigration, cultural development through the arts and technological innovations, relationships with foreign
nations, and the role of both the individual and diverse groups in building the American story.
FOUND PRIN USA&NC: CIVIC LITERACY 9346AX0 1 CREDIT
This course will allow students to examine the ways in which power and responsibility are both shared and limited by the U.S. Constitution and how the judicial, legal,
and political systems of North Carolina and the United States embody the founding principles of government.
WORLD HISTORY 9347AX0 1 CREDIT
The course is intended to examine the historical development of the world and global issues and patterns since 1200. The course also explores underlying themes of
power and authority; change and continuity; human-environment interaction; globalization; cultural diffusion; and individual and group identity.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 129
World Language Courses
Previous performance in World Languages courses and teacherrecommendation should be considered in course selection.
MODERN LANGUAGE LEVEL 1 French I 11012X0 1 CREDIT
German I 11612X0 1 CREDIT
Spanish I 11412X0 1 CREDIT
The Level 1 Modern Languages course is the first in a multi-course sequence of communicative, proficiency-based courses. In Level 1, students learn the foundations
of the language’s vocabulary and structures in order to communicate in simple sentences on simple topics related to basic, necessary skills in the target language.
Classes are conducted primarily in the target language with a strong focus on comprehensible input at a level appropriate for novice learners. Activities focus on
students’ abilities to perform in the interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational modes with a strong focus on target culture literacy. As in all courses in modern
languages sequence, the goal is that students will be able to use what they have learned now and in the future. Students who successfully complete the course will
demonstrate Novice Mid proficiency or above. Typical topics in level one courses include personal identity, family, and activities in the community.
MODERN LANGUAGE LEVEL 2 French II 11022X0 1 CREDIT
German II 11622X0 1 CREDIT
Spanish II 11422X0 1 CREDIT
The Level 2 Modern Languages course is the second in a multi-course sequence of communicative, proficiency-based courses. In Level 2, students build on the linguistic
foundations which they studied in Level 1. Students continue building on the foundation from Level 1, communicating in increasingly more complex situations and with
greater depth. Classes are conducted primarily in the target language with a strong focus on comprehensible input at an appropriate level for novice learners, with
added complexity compared to Level 1. Activitiesfocus on students’ abilitiesto perform in the interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational modes with a strong focus
on target culture literacy. Students who successfully complete the course will demonstrate Novice High proficiency or above. Typical topics in level two courses include
travel survival skills, entertainment, childhood, and daily life around the world.
MODERN LANGUAGE LEVEL 3 French III HONORS 11035X0 1 CREDIT
German III HONORS 11635X0 1 CREDIT
Spanish III HONORS 11435X0 1 CREDIT
The Level 3 Modern Languages course is the third in a multi-course sequence of communicative, proficiency-based courses. The Level 3 course builds upon the many
ideas, themes, and structures learned in Levels 1 and 2 for students to communicate in complex, higher-level sentences on a variety of topics, both familiar and new.
Classes are conducted primarily in the target language with a strong focus on comprehensible input at an appropriate level for intermediate learners, with added
complexity and elaboration compared to Levels 1 and 2. Activities focus on students’ abilities to perform in the interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational modes
with a strong focus on target culture literacy. Students who successfully complete the course will demonstrate Intermediate Low proficiency or above. Topics in Level
3 will vary, but leverage increasing language skills to examine the world on a global scale with themes that lay the foundation for courses such as AP/IB.
FRENCH IV HONORS 11045X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): French III
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed Level III in high school or they have placed out of Levels I-III due to previous language study and /or
established proficiency. A major focus of this course is to enable students to communicate in writing and in extended conversations on a variety of familiar and some
unfamiliar topics. Students begin to narrate, discuss, and support complex ideas and concepts using concrete facts and topics with details in a variety of times. They
satisfy routine social demands and meet mostsocial requirements. The emphasis of this course can vary, as described above. Many different types of text (shortstories,
poetry, and excerpts from various periods of literature, current events, technical manuals, and other authentic materials) are included, depending on the emphasis and
providing for independent reading. Finer points of grammar are studied to aid oral and written communication. There is more in-depth study of the target culture(s)
and their influence throughout the world. Students can connect the target language to other disciplines and can compare it to their own. Finally, they can use the
language inside and outside of the classroom setting.
FRENCH V HONORS 11055X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): French IV
This course emphasizes the use of language for active communication. Students develop language skills (reading, writing, listening, and speaking that can be used in
various activities and disciplines, and in formal and informal settings, rather than focusing on any specific subject matter. Emphasis is placed on the comprehension of
the spoken and written target language in various contexts, coherent, and resourceful communication, and the organization and sharing of oral presentations and
written presentations
AP FRENCH LANGUAGE & CULTURE 1A037X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): French IV or French V
This course emphasizes the use of language for active communication. Students develop language skills (reading, writing, listening, and speaking that can be used in
various activities and disciplines, and in formal and informal settings, rather than focusing on any specific subject matter. Emphasis is placed on the comprehension of
the spoken and written target language in various contexts, coherent, and resourceful communication, and the organization and sharing of oral presentations and
written presentations. This course followsthe prescribed curriculum of the AP program. Instruction focuses on the mastery of language skillsthrough increased reading,
conversation, and composition at the college level. It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam.
SPANISH HERITAGE I 11492X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Ability to speak and comprehend conversational Spanish
This course is designed specifically for native or heritage speakers of a language other than English who already have some oral language proficiency. The purpose of
this course is to enable students to develop, maintain, and enhance their proficiency in the heritage language by providing them the opportunity to listen, speak, and
write in a variety of contexts and for a variety of audiences, including the family, school, and the immediate community. The course will allow students to explore the
cultures that use the heritage language, including their own, and it will enable students to gain a better understanding of the nature of their own language as well as
other languages to be acquired.
SPANISH HERITAGE II HONORS 11505X0 1 CREDIT
Students enrolled in this course have either successfully completed a Heritage Language Level I course at the middle of high school or have placed out of Level I due to
previous language study and/or established proficiency. This course is designed specifically for a native or heritage speakers of a language other than English who
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 130
already have some oral language proficiency. The purpose of this course isto enable studentsto further develop, maintain, and enhance their proficiency in the heritage
language by providing them the opportunity to listen, speak, read, and write in a variety of contexts and for a variety of audiences , including the family, school, and
broader community. The course will allow students to explore the cultures that use the heritage language, including their own, and will enable studentsto gain a better
understanding of the nature of their own language as well as other languages to be acquired.
SPANISH IV HONORS 11445X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Spanish III
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed Level III in high school or they have placed out of Levels I-III due to previous language study and /or
established proficiency. A major focus of this course is to enable students to communicate in writing and in extended conversations on a variety of familiar and some
unfamiliar topics. Students begin to narrate, discuss, and support complex ideas and concepts using concrete facts and topics with details in a variety of times. They
satisfy routine social demands and meet mostsocial requirements. The emphasis of this course can vary, as described above. Many different types of text (shortstories,
poetry, and excerpts from various periods of literature, current events, technical manuals, and other authentic materials) are included, depending on the emphasis and
providing for independent reading. Finer points of grammar are studied to aid oral and written communication. There is more in-depth study of the target culture(s)
and their influence throughout the world. Students can connect the target language to other disciplines and can compare it to their own. Finally, they can use the
language inside and outside of the classroom setting.
SPANISH V HONORS 11455X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite: Spanish IV
This course emphasizes the use of language for active communication. Students develop language skills (reading, writing, listening, and speaking that can be used in
various activities and disciplines, and in formal and informal settings, rather than focusing on any specific subject matter. Emphasis is placed on the comprehension of
the spoken and written target language in various contexts, coherent, and resourceful communication, and the organization and sharing of oral presentations and
written presentations
AP SPANISH LANGUAGE & CULTURE 1A087X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Spanish IV or Spanish V
This course emphasizes the use of language for active communication. Students develop language skills (reading, writing, listening, and speaking) that can be used in
various activities and disciplines, and in formal and informal settings, rather than focusing on any specific subject matter. Emphasis is placed on the comprehension of
the spoken and written target language in various contexts, coherent, and resourceful communication, and the organization and sharing of oral presentations and
written presentations. This course followsthe prescribed curriculum of the AP program. Instruction focuses on the mastery of language skillsthrough increased reading,
conversation, and composition at the college level. It is expected that students enrolled in this course will take the College Board AP Exam.
AP SPANISH LITERATURE & CULTURE 1A097X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Spanish IV or Spanish V
The AP Spanish Literature course is designed to provide students with a learning experience equivalent to that of a third-year college course in Peninsular and Latin
American literature. The expansive reading list introduces students to the diverse literature written in Spanish and thus helps them reflect on many voices and cultures
included in this very rich literature. Students will be exposed to a wide variety of genres and types of disclosure and will enable students to trace the history of the
Spanish prose from Don Juan Manuel to modern times through some of its most brilliant practitioners.
GERMAN IV HONORS 11645X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): German III
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed Level III in high school or they have placed out of Levels I-III due to previous language study and /or
established proficiency. A major focus of this course is to enable students to communicate in writing and in extended conversations on a variety of familiar and some
unfamiliar topics. Students begin to narrate, discuss, and support complex ideas and concepts using concrete facts and topics with details in a variety of times. They
satisfy routine social demands and meet mostsocial requirements. The emphasis of this course can vary, as described above. Many different types of text (shortstories,
poetry, and excerpts from various periods of literature, current events, technical manuals, and other authentic materials) are included, depending on the emphasis and
providing for independent reading. Finer points of grammar are studied to aid oral and written communication. There is more in-depth study of the target culture(s)
and their influence throughout the world. Students can connect the target language to other disciplines and can compare it to their own. Finally, they can use the
language inside and outside of the classroom setting.
GERMAN V HONORS 11655X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): German IV
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed Level III at the middle or high school or they have placed out of Levels I-III due to previous language study
and /or established proficiency. A major focus of this course is to enable students to communicate in writing and in extended conversations on a variety of familiar and
some unfamiliar topics. Students begin to narrate, discuss, and support complex ideas and concepts using concrete facts and topics with details in a variety of times.
They satisfy routine social demands and meet most social requirements. The emphasis of this course can vary, as described above. Many different types of text (short
stories, poetry, and excerpts from various periods of literature, current events, technical manuals, and other authentic materials) are included, depending on the
emphasis and providing for independent reading. Finer points of grammar are studied to aid oral and written communication. There is more in-depth study of the
target culture(s) and their influence throughout the world. Students can connect the target language to other disciplines and can compare it to their own. Finally, they
can use the language inside and outside of the classroom setting.
AP GERMAN LANGUAGE AND CULTURE 1A047X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): German IV
This course is designed to promote proficiency in German and to enable students to explore culture in contemporary and historical contexts. The course focuses on
communication and teaches students skills and abilities in the various modes of communication. Students will develop an understanding and appreciation of various
aspects of the cultures of the German-speaking world. Students will explore topics in interesting, meaningful and engaging contexts.
LATIN I 12412X0 1 CREDIT
This course is an introduction to the study of the classical language and the Greco-Roman culture and may be taken in middle or high school. Students learn the basic
functions of the language, become familiar with some of the elements of its culture and increase their understanding of English. Emphasisis placed on the development
of skills in reading and comprehension of adapted texts. Integration of the other disciplines with special emphasis in English Language Arts is ongoing throughout the
course.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 131
LATIN II 12422X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Latin I
Students enrolled in this course have either successfully completed Level I course in high school or have placed out of Level I due to previous language study and/ or
established proficiency. This course continues the study of the classical language and Greco-Roman culture. Students learn increasingly complex functions of the
language, become familiar with more elements of the culture, and increase their understanding of English. Emphasis is placed on the development of skills in reading
and comprehension of adapted texts. Integration of other disciplines, with special emphasis on English Language Arts, is ongoing throughout the course.
LATIN III HONORS 12435X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Latin II
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed Level I and II courses in high school or have placed out of both levels due to previous language study and/
or established proficiency. This course focuses on advanced grammar skills in the classical language. It introduces the study of literature and emphasizes the process
of reading authentic texts. Students continue to refine their knowledge and understanding of the Greco-Roman and their own culture by examining the
interrelationships of these cultures and applying their knowledge and skills inside and outside the classroom setting. Integration of the other disciplines with special
emphasis on English Language Arts is ongoing throughout the course.
LATIN IV HONORS 12445X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Latin III
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed a Level III course in high school or have placed out Level I due to previouslanguage study and/or established
proficiency. A major focus of Level IV is on reading authentic texts with grammar taught in context of the readings. Emphasisis placed on five figures of speech, analysis,
and essay writing. There is more in-depth study of the Greco-Roman culture and its influence throughout the world, as well as the students’ own culture. Students are
now able to connect the classical language to other disciplines and compare it to their own language.
LATIN V HONORS 12455X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Latin IV or teacher recommendation
Students enrolled in this course have successfully completed a Level IV course in high school or have placed out Level I due to previouslanguage study and/or established
proficiency. This course emphasizes the skills required for a student to successfully read, translate into English, understand, analyze, and interpret readings, including
the cultural, social, and political context of literature on a syllabus. Students will also focus on writing well-developed essays in English.
AP LATIN 1A077X0 1 CREDIT
Recommended prerequisite(s): Latin IV or Latin V
In the course, as in the parallel courses at colleges, students are expected to be able to translate accurately from Latin into English the poetry they are reading and to
demonstrate a grasp of grammatical structures and vocabulary. Since the appreciation of Latin literature requires an understanding of the literary techniques of Latin
writers and of poetic meters when appropriate, stylistic analysis is an integral part of the advanced work in the course. In addition, the AP Latin: Vergil course includes
the study of the cultural, social, and political context of the literature on the syllabus.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 132
Other Credit Programs
ACADEMIC DECATHLON 96102X0B1 1 CREDIT
The purpose of the Academic Decathlon class is to prepare students to participate on a nine-member team that competes in a ten-event competition. This class is open
to students in grades 9-12 who may participate on a team as Honors, Scholastic, or Varsity students as defined by the United States Academic Decathlon guidelines for
grade point averages. It encourages students to develop a greater respect for knowledge, promotes wholesome competition in academic areas of study and interests,
and stimulates intellectual growth and achievement.
COMMUNITIES INSCHOOLS I 96102X0G 1 CREDIT
The Communities in Schools I program provides at-risk students an opportunity to experience success in school, to improve attitudes and behaviors that contribute to
successful learning and living, and to access health and social services support. Tutoring and mentoring by volunteers from the community are part of this course. Study
skills, life skills, and employability skills are addressed. Shadowing opportunities are offered and guest speakers, field trips, and workshops provided by community
agencies contribute to the curriculum. With extra support and encouragement, students work towards helping themselves be successful.
COMMUNITIES INSCHOOLS II 96102X0H 1 CREDIT
The Communities in Schools II program provides at-risk students who have demonstrated a need for additional assistance beyond CIS I an opportunity to improve
attitudes and behaviors that contribute to successful learning and living. Tutoring and mentoring, guest speakers and field trips are continued in the second- level
course. Extra support and encouragement are always emphasized.
FRESHMEN SEMINAR 96102X0E 1 CREDIT
This course is designed for rising freshmen who have shown leadership potential and are interested in honing ability and learning new skills in order to take on the
rigors of high school. This Paideia-style course will allow a diverse group of studentsthe opportunity to interact with other leaders and to engage them through a variety
of activities and problem-solving methods.
LIBRARY MEDIA STUDIES 96102X0HH 1 CREDIT
Library Media Studiesis an internship-style course based around the 4Cs of collaboration, communication, creativity, and critical thinking. Recommended assmall group
blended instruction, this course empowers students to lead in the library while learning how to access and organize resources for academic research, develop literacy
skills and enjoyment, use technology to enhance learning, and provide support to other students. In addition to daily roles and weekly assignments, students will
participate in project-based learning as evidenced on a digital portfolio.
SEMINAR 96102X0D 1 CREDIT
This course is designed as an integrated follow-up to two or more courses. Students reinforce and expand their knowledge of the content of the specified courses
through a Paideia-like, seminar format.
INDEPENDENT STUDY SKILLS 96102X0W 1 CREDIT
This course is designed to be taught as a companion to core courses to support students who enter high school with an intervention plan based on their Level 1 or 2
score on the eighth-grade End of Grade Test. Through literacy-rich learning activities using cross-curricular texts and materials, students learn how to break apart long
or complex assignments and create their own scaffolds forsuccess. Students will focustheir learning on enhancing their ability to read and write effectively for contentarea study. This course may not be used as an independent study hall for students.
OTHER PROGRAM AREA INTERNSHIP (NON-CTE) 96102X0A 1 CREDIT
An internship allows for the development of skills within a general career field. Internships allow students to observe and participate in daily operations, develop direct
contact with job personnel, ask questions about particular careers, and perform certain job tasks. This activity is exploratory and allows the student to get hands-on
experience in a number of related activities. The teacher, student, and the business community jointly plan the organization, implementation, and evaluation of an
internship, regardless of whether it is an unpaid or paid internship. A student must complete 135 hours of work-based learning to earn 1 CREDIT. The Central Office
School-to-Career Coordinator must be notified of each student who registers for this course for insurance purposes.
COLLEGE ANDUNIVERSITY COURSES
College courses, which may be delivered by a community college, a public university or private college or university, provide credit toward a high school diploma and
may satisfy a graduation requirement or provide an elective course credit. Students will receive 1.0 additional quality point to the grade earned in community college
courses included on the most recent Comprehensive Articulation Agreement Transfer List, and for courses taught at four-year universities and colleges. The credit for
the course will be entered in PowerSchool in historical data, after the student has completed the course and upon receipt by the high school of the college transcript
showing the grade in the course. Students/parents are responsible for obtaining the college transcript and having it delivered to the school. The exceptions to this
process include College and Career Promise courses scheduled by a school and University or Community College courses scheduled by the Early College High Schools
and the Academies.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 133
High School Course Codes
Base Course Code Variationsfor Scheduling Purposes(if needed)
● F = Fall
● S = Spring
● W = Wildcard to be used as you wish
● XR – Credit Recovery New Standards (must be used)
● I = ICR
● V = Online (must be used)
● C = CTE Academy
● CF = CTE Academy Fall
● CS = CTE Academy Spring
● N = Ninth Grade Center (if you have one)
● NF = Ninth Grade Center Fall
● NS = Ninth Grade Center Spring
● 09=Sheltered Course (must be used)
Course Code Explanation
Example: 10212X0
The first four digitsindicate the course. The first digit of the four digitsrepresentsthe academic area asfollows:
0 = nonspecific subjects
1 = English/Language Arts; World Languages; Public Speaking
2 = Mathematics
3 = Science
4 = Social Studies
5 = Arts
6 = Health/PE
9 = Occupational Course of Study; ROTC; Approved Online Vendor Courses; Special Interest Topics; Teacher Cadet; SAT Prep; ACT Prep; PreK Alpha = Career and Technical Education courses
When there is a number in the first digit and a letter in the second of the four digits, the letter indicates a special course type that is different from the NC
Standard Course of Study.
C = Community
College U =
University or
College A =
Advanced
Placement
I = International Baccalaureate (IB) (does not include CTE)
The fifth digit indicates the academic level/grading weight given the course. It is also used to indicate Exceptional Children Extended Content Standards
and Occupational Course of Study courses.
2 = standard weight; no additional quality point
5 = honors weight; 0.5 or 1 additional quality point**
7 = AP weight; 1 or 2 additional quality points**
8 = IB weight; 1 or 2 additional quality points**
A = Extended Content Standards; no additional quality point
B = Occupational Course of Study; no additional quality point
**Referto chart on Page 17 for new quality point breakdown based on 9th Grade Entry Date
The sixth digit indicatesthe current level of the student.
Z =
elementa
ry Y =
middle
X = high
Note: When a high school course is being taught at middle school for credit, the first four digits will be the high school course and a Y will be in the 6th digit to
indicate that the high school course is being taken by a middle school student for high school credit.
The seventh digit indicates various course sequence information.
• Example: A world language course such as Spanish I may be taught in middle school for high school credit and taught over a two-year period in order to cover
the material--Spanish I (Part A) and Spanish I (Part B). Both would be required to receive credit for the Spanish I course on the high school transcript.
• Example: A three-course sequence for the CTE Modern Plumbing Part A; Modern Plumbing Part B; Modern Plumbing Part C courses. Each course may be
taken and awarded credit individually without completing all three.
The eighth through tenth digits are for District use only.
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 134
Course Codes 2025-2026
Course Title Content Area Course Code
AP ART HISTORY ARTS 5A007X0
AP MUSIC THEORY ARTS 5A017X0
AP STUDIO ART – 2D DESIGN ARTS 5A027X0
AP STUDIO ART – 3D DESIGN ARTS 5A037X0
AP STUDIO ART – DRAWING ARTS 5A047X0
ART HISTORY – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) ARTS 54612X0A
CHORAL MUSIC 1 BEGINNING ARTS 52302X0D
CHORAL MUSIC 2 INTERMEDIATE ARTS 52312X0D
CHORAL MUSIC 3 PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 52325X0D
CHORAL MUSIC 4 ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 52335X0D
COMMERCIAL ART: PRINTMAKING/TEXTILES - VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION
(INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 54622X0D
COMPUTER ART AND ANIMATION - VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 54622X0E
COMPUTER ART AND ANIMATION - VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 54635X0E
DANCE - ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 51185X0A
DANCE - BEGINNING ARTS 51152X0A
DANCE - INTERMEDIATE ARTS 51162X0A
DANCE - PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 51175X0A
DRAWING – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 54622X0A
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION BEGINNING ARTS 52162X0D
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION INTERMEDIATE ARTS 52172X0D
GUITAR – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION- PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 52185X0D
INDEPENDENT STUDY – DANCE SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) ARTS 51285X0A
INDEPENDENT STUDY – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) ARTS 52195X0A
INDEPENDENT STUDY – THEATRE – THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) ARTS 53645X0A
INDEPENDENT STUDY – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) ARTS 54645X0B
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 52585X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – BEGINNING ARTS 52552X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – INTERMEDIATE ARTS 52562X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: BAND – PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 52575X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: JAZZ ENSEMBLE – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 52185X0B
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 135
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA - ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 52435X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – BEGINNING ARTS 52402X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – INTERMEDIATE ARTS 52412X0A
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC: ORCHESTRA – PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 52425X0A
MUSIC APPRECIATION – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) ARTS 52162X0A
MUSIC THEORY – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 52185X0A
MUSICAL THEATRE ORCHESTRA – MUSIC SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 52185X0G
PAINTING – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 54635X0A
PROGRAMMING AND BROADCASTING - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) ARTS 53612X0B
PROGRAMMING AND BROADCASTING – THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION
(INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 53622X0B
PROGRAMMING AND BROADCASTING - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION
(PROFICIENT) ARTS 53635X0B
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (ADVANCED) ARTS 54645X0A
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 54622X0B
SCULPTURE/CERAMICS – VISUAL ART SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 54635X0B
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (BEGINNING) ARTS 53612X0A
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (INTERMEDIATE) ARTS 53622X0A
TECHNICAL THEATRE - THEATRE ARTS SPECIALIZATION (PROFICIENT) ARTS 53635X0A
THEATRE ARTS - ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 53185X0A
THEATRE ARTS - BEGINNING ARTS 53152X0A
THEATRE ARTS - INTERMEDIATE ARTS 53162X0A
THEATRE ARTS - PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 53175X0A
VISUAL ARTS - ADVANCED HONORS ARTS 54185X0A
VISUAL ARTS - BEGINNING ARTS 54152X0A
VISUAL ARTS - INTERMEDIATE ARTS 54162X0A
VISUAL ARTS - PROFICIENT HONORS ARTS 54175X0A
3D MODELING AND ANIMATION I CTE CD202X0
3D MODELING AND ANIMATION II CTE CD212X0
ACCOUNTING I CTE BA102X0
ACCOUNTING I HONORS CTE BA105X0
ACCOUNTING II HONORS* CTE BA205X0
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I CTE CD122X0
ADOBE DIGITAL DESIGN I HONORS CTE CD125X0
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I CTE CD142X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 136
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN I HONORS CTE CD145X0
ADOBE VIDEO DESIGN II CTE CD152X0
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I CTE CD102X0
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN I HONORS CTE CD105X0
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN II CTE CD112X0
ADOBE VISUAL DESIGN II HONORS CTE CD115X0
ADVANCED GAME ART DESIGN CTE CD312X0
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING I HONORS CTE IM115X0
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING II HONORS* CTE IM125X0
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS I CTE AS312X0
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS I HONORS CTE AS315X0
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS II HONORS* CTE AS325X0
AGRICULTURAL MECHANICS II-SMALL ENGINES HONORS* CTE AS335X0
ANIMAL SCIENCE I CTE AA212X0
ANIMAL SCIENCE I HONORS CTE AA215X0
ANIMAL SCIENCE II – COMPANION ANIMAL HONORS* CTE AA235X0
ANIMAL SCIENCE II – COMPANION ANIMAL* CTE AA232X0
ANIMAL SCIENCE II - FOOD ANIMAL HONORS* CTE AA225X0
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES* CTE 0A027X0
APPAREL AND TEXTILE PRODUCTION I CTE FA312X0
APPAREL AND TEXTILE PRODUCTION II * CTE FA322X0
APPAREL AND TEXTILE PRODUCTION II HONORS* CTE FA325X0
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE I CTE IT162X0
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE II HONORS* CTE IT175X0
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE III HONORS CTE IT185X0
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES FUNDAMENTALS CTE IT112X0
BIOMEDICAL INNOVATIONS HONORS CTE HL215X0
BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY HONORS* CTE HB115X0
BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY* CTE HB112X0
BUSINESS ESSENTIALS CTE BF102X0
BUSINESS ETHICS AND LAW I CTE BB302X0
BUSINESS ETHICS AND LAW II* CTE BB322X0
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT I CTE BB402X0
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT II* CTE BB422X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 137
CAREER MANAGEMENT CTE ED452X0
CARPENTRY I CTE IC212X0
CARPENTRY II HONORS CTE IC225X0
CARPENTRY III HONORS CTE IC235X0
CHILD DEVELOPMENT CTE FE602X0
CISCO NETWORK ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY I HONORS CTE CI105X0
CISCO NETWORK ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY II HONORS* CTE CI115X0
COMPTIA IT FUNDAMENTALS CTE CI002X0
COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY I HONORS CTE CI015X0
COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY II HONORS* CTE CI025X0
COMPUTER SCIENCE I CTE CS202X0
COMPUTER SCIENCE II* CTE CS212X0
CONSTRUCTION CORE CTE IC002X0
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH I CTE FC132X0
COUNSELING AND MENTAL HEALTH II* CTE FC142X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES AAVC HONORS CTE WS015X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES AGNR HONORS CTE WS025X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES ARCH HONORS CTE WS035X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES BMA HONORS CTE WS045X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES EDUC HONORS CTE WS055X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES FINA HONORS CTE WS065X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES HLTH HONORS CTE WS085X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES HOSP HONORS CTE WS095X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES HUMA HONORS CTE WS105X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES INFO HONORS CTE WS115X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES LAW HONORS CTE WS125X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES MANU HONORS CTE WS135X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES MRKT HONORS CTE WS145X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES STEM HONORS CTE WS155X0
CTE ADVANCED STUDIES TRAN HONORS CTE WS165X0
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY I CTE FH102X0
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY II APPLICATIONS CTE FH112X0
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY II APPLICATIONS HONORS CTE FH115X0
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY II INTERNSHIP HONORS CTE FH125X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 138
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY III HONORS* CTE FH135X0
CULINARY ARTS AND HOSPITALITY IV APPLICATIONS HONORS CTE FH145X0
DRAFTING I HONORS CTE IC615X0
DRAFTING II - ARCHITECTURAL HONORS* CTE IC625X0
DRAFTING II - ENGINEERING HONORS* CTE IV225X0
DRAFTING III - ARCHITECTURAL HONORS CTE IC635X0
DRAFTING III – ENGINEERING HONORS CTE IV235X0
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION I HONORS* CTE FE115X0
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION II HONORS CTE FE125X0
ELECTRICAL TRADES I HONORS CTE IC415X0
ELECTRICAL TRADES II HONORS CTE IC425X0
ELECTRICAL TRADES III HONORS CTE IC435X0
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT I* CTE IP512X0
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT II HONORS CTE IP525X0
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY I HONORS CTE IP215X0
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY II HONORS* CTE IP225X0
ENGINEERING DESIGN HONORS* CTE CT125X0
ENGINEERING DESIGN* CTE CT122X0
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I CTE ME112X0
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I HONORS CTE ME115X0
ENTREPRENEURSHIP II HONORS* CTE ME125X0
EQUINE SCIENCE I CTE AA312X0
EQUINE SCIENCE II HONORS* CTE AA325X0
FASHION MERCHANDISING CTE MI212X0
FINANCIAL PLANNING I CTE BF212X0
FINANCIAL PLANNING II* CTE BF222X0
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY I CTE IP312X0
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY II* CTE IP322X0
FIREFIGHTER TECHNOLOGY III HONORS CTE IP335X0
FOOD AND NUTRITION I CTE FN412X0
FOOD AND NUTRITION II HONORS* CTE FN425X0
FOOD AND NUTRITION II* CTE FN422X0
FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY HONORS* CTE FN435X0
FOUNDATIONS OF AGRICULTURE CTE AU102X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 139
FOUNDATIONS OF HEALTH SCIENCE CTE HU102X0
GAME ART DESIGN HONORS* CTE CD305X0
GAME ART DESIGN* CTE CD302X0
HEALTH SCIENCE I CTE HU402X0
HEALTH SCIENCE I HONORS CTE HU405X0
HEALTH SCIENCE II HONORS* CTE HU425X0
HEALTH SCIENCE II* CTE HU422X0
HORTICULTURE I INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS CTE AP412X0
HORTICULTURE I INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS HONORS CTE AP415X0
HORTICULTURE II – LANDSCAPE CONSTRUCTION HONORS* CTE AP445X0
HORTICULTURE II PLANT PRODUCTION * CTE AP422X0
HORTICULTURE II PLANT PRODUCTION HONORS* CTE AP425X0
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM MANAGEMENT I CTE FH312X0
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM MANAGEMENT II* CTE FH322X0
INTERIOR DESIGN FUNDAMENTALS CTE FI212X0
INTERIOR DESIGN STUDIO CTE FI222X0
INTERIOR DESIGN STUDIO HONORS CTE FI225X0
INTERIOR DESIGN TECHNOLOGY HONORS CTE FI235X0
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER SCIENCE CTE CS102X0
INTRODUCTION TO DATA SCIENCE CTE CS302X0
LAW AND JUSTICE I CTE IP412X0
LAW AND JUSTICE II HONORS* CTE IP425X0
MARKETING I CTE MM512X0
MARKETING II* CTE MM522X0
MASONRY I HONORS CTE IC115X0
MASONRY II HONORS CTE IC125X0
MASONRY III HONORS CTE IC135X0
MICROSOFT EXCEL HONORS CTE CC115X0
MICROSOFT WORD & POWERPOINT CTE CC102X0
MICROSOFT WORD & POWERPOINT HONORS CTE CC105X0
NATIONAL RESOURCES I CTE AN512X0
NATIONAL RESOURCES II CTE AN522X0
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - FORESTRY CTE AN532X0
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - FORESTRY HONORS CTE AN535X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 140
NATIONAL RESOURCES II - HONORS CTE AN525X0
NURSING FUNDAMENTALS AND NON-PRACTICUM HONORS CTE HN425X0
NURSING FUNDAMENTALS AND PRACTICUM HONORS CTE HN435X0
PHARMACY TECHNICIAN HONORS CTE HH325X0
PRINCIPLES OF FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES CTE FC112X0
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I CTE GS112X0
PROJECT MANAGEMENT I HONORS CTE GS115X0
PROJECT MANAGEMENT II HONORS* CTE GS125X0
PUBLIC SAFETY I* CTE IP112X0
PUBLIC SAFETY II HONORS* CTE IP125X0
PYTHON PROGRAMMING I CTE CP102X0
PYTHON PROGRAMMING II HONORS* CTE CP115X0
SAS BASE PROGRAMMING HONORS* CTE CS315X0
SPORT AND EVENT MARKETING I CTE MH312X0
SPORT AND EVENT MARKETING II HONORS* CTE MH325X0
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION I CTE AU212X0
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION I HONORS CTE AU215X0
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION II CTE AU222X0
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION II HONORS CTE AU225X0
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION I HONORS CTE FE215X0
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION II FIELD EXPERIENCE HONORS* CTE FE235X0
TEACHING AS A PROFESSION II HONORS* CTE FE225X0
TECHNOLOGICAL DESIGN HONORS* CTE CT115X0
TECHNOLOGICAL DESIGN* CTE CT112X0
TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING AND DESIGN CTE CT102X0
TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING AND DESIGN HONORS CTE CT105X0
TURFGRASS MANAGEMENT* CTE AL432X0
VETERINARY ASSISTING HONORS CTE AA415X0
AMERICAN HISTORY ECS 9345AX0
AMERICAN HISTORY I ECS 9342AX0
APPLIED SCIENCE ECS 9231AX0
BIOLOGY A ECS 9332AX0
BIOLOGY B ECS 9333AX0
CIVICS AND GOVERNANCE I ECS 9340AX0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 141
CIVICS AND GOVERNANCE II ECS 9341AX0
ECONOMICS AND PERSONAL FINANCE ECS 9344AX0
EMPLOYMENT ADJUSTMENT ECS 9610AX0E
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS I ECS 9310AX0
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS II ECS 9311AX0
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS III ECS 9312AX0
ENGLISH/LANGUAGE ARTS IV ECS 9313AX0
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT I ECS 9322AX0
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT II ECS 9323AX0
FOUND PRIN USA&NC: CIVIC LITERACY ECS 9346AX0
NC MATH 1 B ECS 9325AX0
NC MATH 1 A ECS 9324AX0
NC VOCATIONAL PREPARATION ECS 9391AX0
PHYSICAL EDUCATION ECS 60292X0
SKILLS IN INDEPENDENT LIVING ECS 9610AX0C
SOCIALIZATION LEISURE SKILLS ECS 9610AX0B
VOCATIONAL EXPERIENCE ECS 9610AX0A
WORK RELATED BEHAVIOR ECS 9610AX0D
WORLD HISTORY ECS 9347AX0
ADVANCED FORENSICS HONORS ELA 10185X0A
ADVANCED RESEARCH AND FORENSICS HONORS ELA 10185X0B
AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE ELA 10252X0A
AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE HONORS ELA 10255X0J
AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMPOSITION ELA 1A007X0
AP ENGLISH LITERATURE AND COMPOSITION ELA 1A017X0
ARGUMENT THEORY AND PRACTICE HONORS ELA 10185X0D
CREATIVE WRITING I ELA 10252X0D
CREATIVE WRITING I HONORS ELA 10255X0D
CREATIVE WRITING II ELA 10252X0H
CREATIVE WRITING II HONORS ELA 10255X0K
CULTURAL MEDIA LITERACY ELA 10252X0E
CULTURAL MEDIA LITERACY HONORS ELA 10255X0E
ENGLISH I ELA 10212X0
ENGLISH I HONORS ELA 10215X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 142
ENGLISH II ELA 10222X0
ENGLISH II HONORS ELA 10225X0
ENGLISH III ELA 10232X0
ENGLISH III HONORS ELA 10235X0
ENGLISH IV ELA 10242X0
ENGLISH IV HONORS ELA 10245X0
INTEGRATED READING ELA 10252X0F
INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNICATIONS AND MASS MEDIA ELA 10312X0B
LEADERSHIP IN MEDIA I HONORS ELA 10255X0C
LEADERSHIP IN MEDIA II HONORS ELA 10255X0M
NEWSPAPER I ELA 10312X0G
NEWSPAPER II ELA 10322X0B
NEWSPAPER II HONORS ELA 10325X0A
NEWSPAPER III ELA 10332X0
NEWSPAPER III HONORS ELA 10335X0
SHAKESPEARE ELA 10252X0L
SHAKESPEARE HONORS ELA 10255X0L
SPEECH I ELA 10142X0
SPEECH I HONORS ELA 10145X0
SPEECH II ELA 10152X0
SPEECH II HONORS ELA 10155X0
STRUCTURED WRITING ELA 10252X0J
THE HUMAN EXPERIENCE HONORS ELA 10255X0B
TRENDS AND MOVEMENTS IN YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE ELA 10252X0M
TWENTIETH CENTURY CLASSICS HONORS ELA 10255X0R
YEARBOOK I ELA 10312X0A
YEARBOOK II ELA 10322X0H
YEARBOOK II HONORS ELA 10325X0D
YEARBOOK III ELA 10332X0A
YEARBOOK III HONORS ELA 10335X0A
ADVANCED LANGUAGE SUPPORT FOR MLs (PART I) ESL 10382X08
ADVANCED LANGUAGE SUPPORT FOR MLs (PART II) ESL 10382X082
ESL APPLIED ESL 10382X0C
ESL I (PART I) ESL 10382X02
ESL I (PART II) ESL 10382X03
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 143
ESL II (PART I) ESL 10382X04
ESL II (PART II) ESL 10382X05
ESL III (PART I) ESL 10382X06
ESL III (PART II) ESL 10382X062
ESL IV (PART I) ESL 10382X07
ESL IV (PART II) ESL 10382X072
ADVENTURE EDUCATION HL 60292X0G
AFJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I A HL 95012X0AA
AFJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I B HL 95012X0BB
AFJROTC III HL 95032X0A
AFJROTC III HONORS HL 95035X0A
AFJROTC IV HL 95042X0A
AFJROTC IV HONORS HL 95045X0A
AJROTC I/ HEALTHFUL LIVING I A HL 95012X0A
AJROTC II/ HEALTHFUL LIVING I B HL 95022X0B
AJROTC III HL 95032X0A
AJROTC III HONORS HL 95035X0A
AJROTC IV HL 95042X0A
AJROTC IV HONORS HL 95045X0A
COMMUNITY FIRST AID & SAFETY/EMERGENCY RESPONSE HL 60092X0G
HEALTHFUL LIVING I HL 60492X0
HEALTHFUL LIVING I HONORS HL 60495X0
JROTC II HL 95022X0BB
LEADERSHIP, DRILL, AND CEREMONIES HL 95022X0D
LEADERSHIP, DRILL, AND CEREMONIES HONORS HL 95025X0
LIFETIME SPORTS I HL 60292X0D
LIFETIME SPORTS II HL 60292X0E
NJROTC I/HEALTHFUL LIVING I A HL 95012X0A
NJROTC II /HEALTHFUL LIVING I B HL 95022X0B
NJROTC III HL 95032X0A
NJROTC III HONORS HL 95035X0A
NJROTC IV HL 95042X0A
NJROTC IV HONORS HL 95045X0A
PEPI I (PHYSICAL EDUCATION PUPIL INSTRUCTORS) HL 60292X0T
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 144
PEPI II HL 60292X0U
PERSONAL HEALTH & FITNESS HL 60092X0K
PHYSICAL FITNESS I HL 60602X0
SPORTS MEDICINE I HL 60632X0
SPORTS MEDICINE II HL 60642X0
SPORTS MEDICINE III HONORS HL 60655X0
SPORTS MEDICINE IV HONORS HL 60665X0
TEAM SPORTS I HL 60292X0J
TEAM SPORTS II HL 60292X0K
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING I HL 60292X0A
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING II HL 60292X0B
WEIGHT TRAINING AND CONDITIONING III HL 60292X0L
AP CALCULUS: AB MA 2A007X0
AP CALCULUS: BC MA 2A017X0
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A* MA 2A027X0
AP PRECALCULUS MA 2A047X0
AP STATISTICS MA 2A037X0
CCRG MATH MA 20132X0
DISCRETE MATH FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE HONORS MA 24015X0
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 1 (MATH 1A) (ELECTIVE CREDIT) MA 20902X0
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 2 (ELECTIVE CREDIT) MA 20912X0
FOUNDATIONS OF NC MATH 3 (ELECTIVE CREDIT) MA 20922X0
INTRODUCTORY MATHEMATICS (ELECTIVE CREDIT) MA 20202X0
MATH PLUS HONORS (ELECTIVE CREDIT) MA 28005X0L
MATHEMATICAL ANALYSIS HONORS MA 28005X0J
NC MATH 1 MA 21092X0
NC MATH 1 HONORS MA 21095X0
NC MATH 1B MA 21092X0B
NC MATH 2 MA 22092X0
NC MATH 2 HONORS MA 22095X0
NC MATH 3 MA 23092X0
NC MATH 3 HONORS MA 23095X0
NC MATH 4 MA 24092X0
NC MATH 4 HONORS MA 24095X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 145
AMERICAN HISTORY I OCS 9247BX0
AMERICAN HISTORY II OCS 9248BX0
AMERICAN HISTORY: FOUNDING PRINCIPLES, CIVICS AND ECONOMICS OCS 9249BX0
APPLIED SCIENCE OCS 9231BX0
BIOLOGY OCS 9232BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP I SCIENCE OCS 9260BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP II CITIZENSHIP 1A OCS 9261BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP II CITIZENSHIP 1B OCS 9262BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP III CITIZENSHIP 2A OCS 9263BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP III CITIZENSHIP 2B OCS 9264BX0
EMPLOYMENT PREP IV MATH OCS 9265BX0
ENGLISH I OCS 9210BX0
ENGLISH II OCS 9211BX0
ENGLISH III OCS 9212BX0
ENGLISH IV OCS 9213BX0
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OCS 9222BX0
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY OCS 9251BX0
INTRODUCTION TO MATHEMATICS OCS 9220BX0
MATH IA (ELECTIVE CREDIT) OCS 9610BX0E
NC MATH 1 OCS 9225BX0
VOCATIONAL EXPERIENCE CAREER TRAINING OCS 9610BX0A
ACADEMIC DECATHLON OTH 96102X0B1
COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS I OTH 96102X0G
COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS II OTH 96102X0H
FRESHMEN SEMINAR OTH 96102X0E
INDEPENDENT STUDY SKILLS OTH 96102X0W
LIBRARY MEDIA STUDIES OTH 96102X0HH
OTHER PROGRAM AREA INTERNSHIP (NON-CTE) OTH 96102X0A
SEMINAR OTH 96102X0D
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY SC 33302X0
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY HONORS SC 33305X0
AP BIOLOGY SC 3A007X0
AP CHEMISTRY SC 3A017X0
AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE SC 3A027X0
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 146
AP PHYSICS C: ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM SC 3A037X0
AP PHYSICS C: MECHANICS SC 3A047X0
AP PHYSICS I-ALGEBRA BASED SC 3A057X0
AP PHYSICS II –ALGEBRA BASED SC 3A067X0
ASTRONOMY SC 35402X0
ASTRONOMY HONORS SC 35405X0
BIOLOGY SC 33202X0
BIOLOGY HONORS SC 33205X0
CHEMISTRY SC 34202X0
CHEMISTRY HONORS SC 34205X0
EARTH SCIENCE/ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE SC 35012X0
EARTH SCIENCE/ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE HONORS SC 35015X0
FORENSIC SCIENCE SC 30202X0D
FORENSIC SCIENCE 2 HONORS SC 30205X0A2
FORENSIC SCIENCE HONORS SC 30205X0A
INTRO TO PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY SC 30202X0A
INTRODUCTION TO METEOROLOGY SC 30202X0L
INTRODUCTION TO METEOROLOGY HONORS SC 30205X0L
MARINE ECOLOGY SC 35352X0A
MARINE ECOLOGY HONORS SC 35355X0
PHYSICAL SCIENCE SC 34102X0
PHYSICS SC 34302X0
PHYSICS HONORS SC 34305X0
PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN INHERITANCE SC 30202X0J
PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN INHERITANCE HONORS SC 30205X0D
RESEARCH METHODS AND TECHNIQUES SC 30202X0G
RESEARCH METHODS AND TECHNIQUES HONORS SC 30205X0E
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE SPED 96102X0K
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (10) SPED 96102X0M
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (11) SPED 96102X0Q
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (12) SPED 96102X0R
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE (9) SPED 96102X0L
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE RESOURCE HI SPED 96102X0T
CURRICULUM ASSISTANCE RESOURCE VI SPED 96102X0U
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 147
HIGH SCHOOL READING SPED 96102X0SP
INDEPENDENT STUDY SKILLS SPED 96102X0W
INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNICATION SKILLS (READING) SPED 96102X0P
21ST CENTURY GLOBAL GEOGRAPHY SS 45052X0
21ST CENTURY GLOBAL GEOGRAPHY HONORS SS 45055X0
AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES SS 46012X0
AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES HONORS SS 46015X0
AMERICAN HISTORY SS 43112X0
AMERICAN HISTORY HONORS SS 43115X0
AP AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES SS 4A107X0
AP COMPARATIVE GOVERNMENT & POLITICS SS 4A007X0
AP EUROPEAN HISTORY SS 4A017X0
AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY SS 4A027X0
AP MACROECONOMICS SS 4A037X0
AP MICROECONOMICS SS 4A047X0
AP PSYCHOLOGY SS 4A057X0
AP UNITED STATES HISTORY SS 4A077X0
AP US GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS SS 4A067X0
AP WORLD HISTORY: MODERN SS 4A097X0
CONTEMPORARY LAW AND JUSTICE SS 48002X0J
CONTEMPORARY LAW AND JUSTICE HONORS SS 48005X0J
CONVERSATIONS IN DIVERSITY SS 48002X0E
CONVERSATIONS IN DIVERSITY HONORS SS 48005X0E
ECONOMICS AND PERSONAL FINANCE SS 43192X0
ECONOMICS AND PERSONAL FINANCE HONORS SS 43195X0
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY SS 43182X0
FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF THE USA AND NC: CIVIC LITERACY HONORS SS 43185X0
HOLOCAUST AND GENOCIDE STUDIES SS 48032X0
HOLOCAUST AND GENOCIDE STUDIES HONORS SS 48035X0
LESSONS OF THE VIETNAM WAR/RECENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SS 48002X0D
LESSONS OF THE VIETNAM WAR/RECENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HONORS SS 48005X0D
PSYCHOLOGY HONORS SS 44035X0
RELIGIONS IN WORLD CULTURES/THE BIBLE IN HISTORY SS 48002X0A
RELIGIONS IN WORLD CULTURES/THE BIBLE IN HISTORY (HN) SS 48005X0G
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 148
SOCIOLOGY HONORS SS 44005X0
SOCIOLOGY/ PSYCHOLOGY SS 48002X0B
WORLD HISTORY SS 43032X0
WORLD HISTORY HONORS SS 43035X0
AP FRENCH LANGUAGE & CULTURE WL 1A037X0
AP GERMAN LANGUAGE AND CULTURE WL 1A047X0
AP LATIN WL 1A077X0
AP SPANISH LANGUAGE & CULTURE WL 1A087X0
AP SPANISH LITERATURE & CULTURE WL 1A097X0
FRENCH I WL 11012X0
FRENCH II WL 11022X0
FRENCH III HONORS WL 11035X0
FRENCH IV HONORS WL 11045X0
FRENCH V HONORS WL 11055X0
GERMAN I WL 11612X0
GERMAN II WL 11622X0
GERMAN III HONORS WL 11635X0
GERMAN IV HONORS WL 11645X0
GERMAN V HONORS WL 11655X0
LATIN I WL 12412X0
LATIN II WL 12422X0
LATIN III HONORS WL 12435X0
LATIN IV HONORS WL 12445X0
LATIN V HONORS WL 12455X0
SPANISH HERITAGE I WL 11492X0
SPANISH HERITAGE II HONORS WL 11505X0
SPANISH I WL 11412X0
SPANISH II WL 11422X0
SPANISH III HONORS WL 11435X0
SPANISH IV HONORS WL 11445X0
SPANISH V HONORS WL 11455X0
*Indicates CTE Concentrator
High School Program Planning Guide 2025-2026 149
Updates/Corrections 04012024
Page 3 Graduation Requirements/Recommendations
Page 6-7 Graduation Requirements Chart
Page 10 University of North Carolina System: Minimum Admission Requirements
Page 15 Graduation Options
Page 124 ECS Applied Science Code
Blank space for notes